MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF DEBIT CARD
An understanding, an agreement
TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE AXIS BANK DEBIT CARD
Important: Please make sure you have read these Debit Card terms and conditions carefully before using
the Axis Bank Debit Card. By using the Debit Card you are unconditionally accepting the terms and conditions
listed hereunder and will be bound by them and you accept the onus of ensuring compliance with the
relevant Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Regulations, Exchange Control Regulation of the RBI, Foreign
Exchange Management Act 1999 ("The Act"), all the rules and regulations framed under the Act and as
amended / modified / applicable from time to time and any other corresponding enactment in force from
time to time. You will also continue to remain bound by the terms and conditions of operation of your
Savings Bank Account / Current Accounts with Axis Bank.
DEFINITIONS
1. “The Bank", "Axis Bank", means Axis Bank Limited and its successors and assignees.
2. "Card" or "Debit Card", refers to the Axis Bank MasterCard / Visa / RuPay Debit Card issued by Axis 
Bank to a Cardholder.
3. "Cardholder", "you", "your", "him" or similar pronouns shall where the context so admit, refer to a 
customer of Axis Bank to whom an Axis Bank Debit Card has been issued by Axis Bank to operate on 
a nominated account(s). All references to the Cardholder in the masculine gender will also include the 
feminine gender.
4. "Account(s)", refers to the Cardholder's Savings or Current Accounts that have been designated by Axis 
Bank to the eligible account(s) for the valid operation of the Debit Card. The Cardholder should be either 
the accountholder or sole signatory or authorised to act alone when there is more than one 
accountholder / signatory.
5. "Primary Account", shall mean in case of multiple accounts linked to the Card, the account that has 
been designated as being the main / first account of operation i.e., the account from which purchase 
transactions, cash withdrawals charges and fees related to the Card are debited.
6. "Nominated Accounts", includes the Primary Account as described above, and it indicates the 
Cardholder's account(s) nominated in writing by him to be accessed by his Debit Card and PIN.
7. "ATM", refers to Automated Teller Machine whether in India or overseas, whether of Axis Bank, or of 
any other bank on a shared network, at which amongst other things, the Cardholder can use his Debit 
Card to access his funds in his account(s) held with Axis Bank.
8. "PIN", means the Personal Identification Number (required to access ATMs) allocated to the Cardholder 
by Axis Bank, chosen by him from time to time.
9. "Transaction", means by instruction given, by a Cardholder by using his Card directly or indirectly, to 
Axis Bank to effect action on the account. (Examples of transactions can be retail purchases, cash 
withdrawals, cash / cheque deposits, etc.).
10. "International Transactions", refers to the transactions performed by the Cardholder through his 
internationally valid Debit Card, outside India, Nepal, and Bhutan.
11. "Statement", means a periodic statement of account sent by Axis Bank to a Cardholder setting out the 
transactions carried out by the Cardholder(s) during the given period and the balance on that account. 
It may also include any the information that Axis Bank may deem fit to include.
12. "Merchant" or "Merchant Establishments", shall mean establishments wherever located which accept /
honour the Card and shall include amongst others: stores, shops, restaurants, airline organizations etc. 
advertised by Axis Bank or MasterCard / Visa / RuPay International.
13. "EDC" or "Electronic Data Capture", refers to electronic Point-of-Sale swipe terminals whether in India 
or overseas, whether of Axis Bank or any other bank on the shared network, that permit the debiting of 
the account(s) for purchase transactions from merchant establishments.
14. "MasterCard / Visa / RuPay", means a trademark owned by a normally associated with MasterCard / 
Visa / RuPay International.
15. "MasterCard / Visa / RuPay ATM Network", means ATMs that honour the Debit Card and that display 
the MasterCard / Visa / RuPay symbols. The Debit Card ("the Card") is issued by Axis Bank Limited, 
("Axis Bank Ltd.") having its registered office at 'Trishul, Opposite Samartheswar Temple, Law Garden, 
Ellis Bridge, Gujarat, Ahmedabad-380006, India" on the following terms and conditions:
CARD VALIDITY AND CARDHOLDER OBLIGATIONS
1. The issue and use of the Card shall be subject to the rules and regulations in force from time to time as 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India, Axis Bank and FEMA 1999.
2. The Card shall be valid only for transaction options, as permitted by the Bank from time to time in India 
and abroad, at Axis Bank ATMs, ATMs of other banks, which are members of the MasterCard / Visa / 
RuPay ATM network and Master Card / Visa / RuPay Point-of-Sale swipe terminals at merchant 
establishments.
3. The Card is and will always be the property of Axis Bank and shall be returned to Axis Bank unconditionally 
and immediately upon Axis Bank's request. The Cardholder is requested to ensure that the identity of the 
Bank Officer is established before handing over the Card.
4. The Debit Card is not transferrable or assignable by the Cardholder under any circumstance.
5. You must sign the Card immediately upon receipt. You must not permit any other person to use it and 
should safeguard the Card from misuse by retaining the Card under your personal control at all times.
6. The Personal Identification Number (PIN) issued to the Cardholder for use with the Card or any number 
chosen by the Cardholder as a PIN, should be known only to the Cardholder and are for the personal use 
of the Cardholder and are non- transferable and strictly confidential. A written record of the PIN number 
should not be kept in any form, place or manner that may facilitate its use by a third party. The PIN should 
not be disclosed to any third party, either to staff of the Bank or to merchant establishments, under any 
circumstance or by any means whether voluntary or otherwise. The Bank shall exercise care while issuing 
the PINs and shall be under obligation not to disclose the cardholder's PIN, except to the cardholder.
7. The Cardholder's account will be debited immediately with the amount of any withdrawal, transfer and 
other transactions effected by the use of the Card. The Cardholder should maintain sufficient funds in the 
account to meet any such transactions.
8. The Cardholder shall not be entitled to overdraw the Cardholders' account(s) with Axis Bank or withdraw 
funds by use of the Debit Card in excess of any agreed overdraft limit.
9. The Cardholder will be responsible for transactions effected by use of the Card, whether authorised by the 
Cardholder or not, and shall indemnify Axis Bank against any loss or damage caused by any unauthorised 
use of the Card or related PIN, including any penal action arising therefrom on account of any violation of 
RBI guidelines or rules framed under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 or any other law being 
in force in India and / or any other country / state / continent / territory wherever located in the world at the 
time, notwithstanding the termination of this agreement. Debit Card usage is also prohibited for overseas 
forex trading through electronic / internet trading portals.
10. At the time of account opening, customers' Savings or Current account nominee will be considered as the 
default nominee for Debit Card application. Bank will not accept any separate Debit Card nomination 
except the one given at the time of opening an account with us.
11. You are requested to note that the Debit Card is valid up to the last day of the month / year indicated.
In case of OD accounts, the card validity is subject to the validity of linked OD account. You hereby 
undertake to destroy the Debit Card when it expires by cutting it into several pieces. Your renewed 
Debit Card shall be sent to you before the expiry of the Card and after prior intimation to customers, 
at the discretion of Axis Bank, upon evaluation of the conduct of your account. Axis Bank reserves 
the sole right of renewing your Card account on expiry and debit any renewable charges to your 
account.
12. The Cardholder will inform Axis Bank in writing within 15 days from the statement date of any 
irregularities or discrepancies that exist in the transaction details at an ATM / merchant establishment 
on the statement of account sent by Axis Bank. If no such notice is received during this time, Axis Bank 
will assume the correctness of both the transaction and the statement of account.
13. Your card comes activated with facility of using at domestic contact-based ATMs and POS merchant 
outlets within India only.
14. The card not present (domestic and international) and card present (international) transactions on your 
card can be enabled / disabled through various channels such Axis Bank Mobile Banking App, open, 
internet banking or Axis Bank branches. The debit card by default will have the contactless option, 
however, basis your preference, the same can be enabled / disabled through various channels such as 
Axis Bank Mobile Banking App, open, internet banking or Axis Bank branches. The contactless option 
is also applicable to RuPay Debit cards.
15. The limits for Online, POS, Cash and Contactless will be a cumulative limit and not an individual limit.
16. The transaction limits (within the overall card limit) for all types of transactions can be set / modified 
through either of the channels mentioned above.
17. For Online / POS / Cash withdrawal limits kindly refer link https://www.axisbank.com/retail/cards/debitcards, applicable to your respective card type Explore more option.
INTERNATIONAL USAGE
1. Utilisation of the Card must be in strict accordance with the Exchange Control Regulations of the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI). In the event of your failure to comply with the same, you are liable for 
action under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and may be debarred from holding the 
Debit Card from Axis Bank either at the instance of Axis Bank or the RBI. You shall indemnify and hold 
harmless Axis Bank from and against any / all consequences arising from you not complying with 
Exchange Control Regulations of the RBI.
2. The Debit Card is not valid for foreign currency transaction in Nepal and Bhutan (i.e., in any other 
currency that is not the Indian, Nepali & Bhutan Rupee),
3. Axis Bank shall be under no liability whatsoever and shall be deemed to be indemnified in respect of a 
loss or damage arising directly or indirectly out of the decline of a charge caused by the Cardholder 
having exceeded the foreign exchange entitlements as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
as issued from time to time, on Axis Bank becoming aware of the Cardholder exceeding his 
entitlements.
4. Non-Resident Indians can hold an internationally valid Debit Card, provided all dues arising out of its 
use in India / overseas are met out of an NRE / NRO account held with Axis Bank
5. International transactions are not permissible on Debit Cards linked to Overdraft accounts.
6. As per the Reserve Bank of India ("RBI") Master Directions / Circular RBI / 2017-18 / 204 dated 19-06-
2018, it shall be mandatory to provide Permanent Account Number ("PAN") for the resident individuals 
to make remittance under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS). Accordingly, PAN details of the 
resident individual (transacting party) are mandatory for every remittance transaction under the 
Scheme. In line with the regulation, Bank will not offer facility of international transactions on Debit Card, 
if Customer fails to furnish his / her valid PAN details at the time of account opening or subsequently.
7. You undertake not to use the Card for making payment for any illegal purchases i.e., purchases of items
/ Services not permitted by the RBI as per extant regulations.
8. International Debit Cards cannot be used on internet or otherwise for purchase of prohibited items, like 
lottery tickets, banned or proscribed magazines, participation in sweepstakes, payment for callback 
services, and / or such items / activities for which no drawable of foreign exchange is permitted".
9. Any resident in India collecting and effecting / remitting payments directly / indirectly / outside India in 
any form towards overseas foreign exchange trading through electronic / Internet trading portals would 
make himself / herself / themselves liable to be proceeded against with for contravention of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act (FEMA) 1999, besides being liable for violation of regulations. relating to 
Know Your Customer (KYC) norms. Also, if any such prohibited transaction is observed on your Debit 
Card (for online banking account), the Card (or account) shall be closed with immediate effect & the 
same reported to regulatory authorities.
10. As per the Income Tax Bill 2025, Cardholder who is Resident Individual, will have to pay TCS (Tax 
Collection at Source) to the bank, on international transactions of Liberalized Remittance Scheme at 
the prevailing rate mentioned under this act and under the conditions mentioned in it.
11. Debit Card International access will be blocked by the Bank upon breach of permissible limit at PAN 
level for existing financial year for Resident Individual account transactions of LRS nature. The same 
will be unblocked in subsequent financial year. This is in accordance with RBI Master Direction, RBI /
FED / 2017-18 / 3 FED Master Direction No. 7 / 2015-16.
12. Any breach in LRS (Liberalised Remittance Scheme) transactions over and above the limit mentioned 
by RBI in Master Direction, will be subject to recalling of the funds and completion of contravention 
formalities as suggested by RBI from time to time. Customer may refer RBI sites for detailed process 
of compounding. Bank will not be liable for any such breach or completion of compounding formalities.
 MASTER DIRECTION – LIBERALISED REMITTANCE SCHEME (LRS): 
1. The total amount of foreign exchange purchased from or remitted through, all sources in India, during 
this financial year including through Debit Card shall be up to USD 2,50,000 (USD two lakh fifty 
thousand or as per the annual limit prescribed by Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) towards international 
transactions from time to time.
2. Transaction details of which are specifically mentioned in the Schedule is not designed for the purpose 
of any contravention or evasion of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
any rule, regulation, notification, direction or order made there under (‘FEMA Rules and Regulations’).
3. Any refusal to comply with any requirement or make unsatisfactory compliance therewith of the FEMA 
Rules and Regulations, the Bank has the right to refuse in writing to categorise the transaction and 
shall, if it has reason to believe that any contravention / evasion is contemplated report the matter to 
RBI. Further, the Cardholder shall have to apply for compounding in case of any contravention of the 
provisions of FEMA Rules and Regulations and can refer link for queries:
• https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/NotificationUser.aspx?Id=10190&Mode=0
• https://www.rbi.org.in/commonperson/English/Scripts/FAQs.aspx?Id=835#:~:text=Ans.,pleading%2
0guilty%20and%20seeking%20redressal.
4. The customer will liable and responsible to repatriate the LRS transactions amount which exceeds 
$250,000. Failure to comply with same can lead necessary action from RBI.
5. Any payments directly / indirectly shall not be remitted outside India in any form towards overseas 
foreign exchange trading through electronic/internet trading portals. It is understood that effecting such 
transactions would make the Cardholder liable to be proceeded against in contravention of the FEMA 
Rules and Regulations besides being liable for violation of regulations relating to Know Your Customer 
(KYC) norms / Anti Money Laundering (AML) regulations and standard.
6. Customer should not undertake capital account transactions using debit cards.
7. Customer should not be making payment to any entity / country under OFAC / EU / UKHMT / UN
sanctions.
8. Payment should not be made for any purpose prohibited under FEMA, 1999.
9. TCS rate would be calculated at double rate for Inoperative / PAN-Aadhar not linked transactions of
Medical and Educational purpose.
MERCHANT ESTABLISHMENT USAGE
1. The Card is accepted at all electronic Point-of-Sale terminal at merchant establishments in India and 
Overseas which display the MasterCard / Visa / RuPay logo.
2. The Card is Electronic Use only and will be accepted only at merchant establishments that have an
electronic Point-of-Sale swipe terminal. Any usage of the Card other than electronic use will be deemed 
unauthorised and the Cardholder will be solely responsible for such transactions. Please note that as per
RBI guidelines, w.e.f. 01-12-2013 all Debit Card transactions at retail outlets as well as the electronic 
Point-of-Sale (PoS) swipe terminals at merchant establishments will need to be validated using the 
existing ATM PIN.
3. When a merchant swipes or inserts your Debit Card in a PoS machine, he / she will first enter the amount. 
Then the PoS machine will prompt for a PIN, which you will have to enter to complete the transaction.
This PIN is the same one that you use at ATMs. If you don't punch in your PIN, Axis Bank will decline the
transaction. You get three chances to enter the right PIN. If the third attempt is also wrong, your card will 
get blocked. This is similar to the process at ATMs.
4. Always enter Debit Card PIN yourself at the merchant establishment. Never share your Debit Card PIN 
with anyone, including the merchant. While using your card on PoS machine, if you suspect something 
unusual, do not use the machine and report it to Axis Bank immediately. Usage of PIN for Debit Card
transaction has been introduced as a security measure that acts as Two-Factor Authentication.
5. Bank prohibits withdrawal of cash using Debit Card at the POS, unless specifically permitted by us for 
specific accounts and amounts.
6. In case of the Cardholder already has an Axis Bank Debit / ATM Card, on his acceptance of the Debit
Card through the first utilisation of the PIN at any Axis Bank ATM or MasterCard / Visa / RuPay ATM, the 
same will be deactivated by Axis Bank subsequently.
7. You must sign the charge slip and retain your copy of the charge slip whenever the Card is used at
merchant establishments. Axis Bank will not furnish copies of the charge slip. Any charge slips not
personally signed by you but which can be proven, as being authorised by you will be deemed to be your
liability.
8. The Debit Card is accepted at all MasterCard / Visa / RuPay merchant outlets having electronic point-ofsale terminals worldwide. Axis Bank will not accept any responsibility for any dealing the merchant may
have with you, including but not limited to the supply of goods and services so availed or offered. Should 
you have any complaint relating to any MasterCard / Visa / RuPay merchant establishment, you should
resolve the matter with the merchant establishment and failure to do so will not relieve you from any
obligations to Axis Bank. If you decide to cancel your purchase and not accept the goods after the card is
swiped, ensure that the merchant cancels the transaction immediately and the slip is handed over to you. 
Any cancellation thereafter will be routed as a "chargeback" on the merchant through the acquiring bank 
and will take the time required to complete the process. There can be no guarantee of full / partial return 
of the amount. Axis Bank accepts no responsibility for any charge levied by any merchant establishment 
over and above the value / cost of transactions and debited to your account along with the transaction
amount.
9. A purchase and a subsequent credit for cancellation of goods / services are two separate transactions. The
refund will only be credited to your account (less cancellation charges) after it is received from the merchant.
If the credit is not posted to your card account within 30 days from the day of refund, you must notify Axis 
Bank, along with a copy of the credit note from the merchant. For detailed process please refer link 
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/grievance-redressal/grievanceredressal-policy.pdf, 
10. In case of Cards linked to multiple accounts, transactions at merchant establishments will be affected only
on the primary account. In case, there are insufficient funds in the said account, Axis Bank will not honour
the transactions even if the necessary funds are available cumulatively or severally in the other accounts 
linked to the Card.
11. The Card should not be used at hotels during check-in and also at other locations where payment is made 
before completion of the purchase transaction or service. Please note that in case such a transaction is 
affected, your funds will be temporarily blocked.
12. The Card should not be used for any Mail / Phone Purchases and any such usage will be considered as
unauthorised.
13. Debit card cannot be issued to Cash Credit / loan account holders except PMJDY accounts & Kisan Credit 
Card accounts with a debit card.
14. The Cardholder would be solely liable for all unauthorised acts and transactions.
ATM USAGE
1. The Card is accepted at the Axis Bank ATMs and MasterCard / Visa / RuPay enabled ATMs worldwide.
2. Cash withdrawals and balance inquiry performed by the Cardholder at MasterCard / Visa / RuPay enabled
ATMs in countries other than India will be subject to a fee, as per prevailing tariff of charges. Cash
withdrawals and balance inquiry at MasterCard / Visa / RuPay ATMs (non-Axis Bank) in India may also be
subject to a fee (as decided by Axis Bank from time to time) and will be debited to the account at the time of
such cash withdrawal and balance inquiry transactions. All transactions at non-Axis Bank ATMs are
subjected to charges as determined by Axis Bank from time to time. The charge schedule is updated on 
Axis Bank website.
3. For all cash withdrawals, cheque / cash deposits at an Axis Bank ATM, any statement / receipt issued by 
the ATM at the time of deposit or withdrawal shall be deemed conclusive, unless verified and intimated
otherwise by Axis Bank. Any such verification shall likewise be final and conclusive, and this verified 
amount will be binding on the Cardholder.
4. Axis Bank will not be liable for any failure to provide any service or to perform any obligation thereunder
where such failure is attributable (whether directly or indirectly) to any malfunction of the ATM or the Card, 
temporary insufficiency of funds, any dispute or other circumstance beyond its control.
5. Axis Bank will not be liable for any consequential or indirect loss or damage arising from or related to the 
loss / use of the Card and related PIN, how so ever caused.
6. The availability of ATM services in a country other than that in which the Card was issued is governed by
the local regulations in force in the said country. Axis Bank shall not be liable if these services are
withdrawn without notice thereof.
7. Cash withdrawal facility is not available on Debit Cards linked to Overdraft accounts.
Please Note: You will have to use your Business Platinum Debit Card for at least 1 purchase transaction to get
free transaction at Non-Axis Bank ATM's.
FEES & CHARGES
1. Transaction fees for cash withdrawals / balance inquiry and / or wherever applicable, will be debited 
to the account at the time of posting the cash withdrawal / balance inquiry or wherever applicable.
2. For details of Joining fee, Issuance Fee, Annual membership fee, Replacement fee, please refer link 
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/cards/fees-and-chargesfor-debit-card.pdf
3. All transactions in foreign currency will be billed in the Cardholder's Bank Account Statements in Indian
Rupees. You hereby authorize Axis Bank and MasterCard / Visa / RuPay to convert the charges
incurred in the foreign currency into the Indian Rupee equivalent thereof at such rates as Axis Bank /
MasterCard / Visa / RuPay may from time to time designate.
4. The Charges / Fees applicable on the usage of the Debit Card may be revised / changed by Axis Bank
from time to time with prior information to the Cardholder(s).
5. Charges in foreign currency: If a transaction is made in a currency other than Indian Rupees, that 
transaction will be converted into Indian Rupees. The conversion will take place on the date the 
transaction is settled with Axis Bank, which may not be the same date on which the transaction was 
made. If the transaction is not in US Dollars, the conversion will be made through US Dollars, by 
converting the charged amount into US Dollars and then by converting the US Dollar amount into Indian 
Rupees. Unless a specific rate is required by applicable law, the conversion rate from US Dollar to 
Indian Rupees will be at the rates provided by VISA / MasterCard, as the case may be, on the settlement 
date, increased by a Currency Conversion Factor assessment (currently 3.50%) on such transactions. 
6. A refund of such a foreign transaction initiated by the customer will also attract an additional 3.5% fee. 
7. Dynamic Currency Conversion mark-up: With DCC, a customer can make an international transaction 
using Indian currency. However, while making payment in INR to an overseas merchant, a DCC markup fee of 1% plus taxes will be levied on the transaction amount. DCC is applicable on international
transactions made through POS or online, either at international location or with a merchant located in 
Indian but registered in foreign nation. Example - If you have made a purchase at a store in an 
International Country and payment is made using your Axis Bank Debit card in INR on POS machine, 
a DCC Mark-up fee of 1% plus, taxes will be levied on the transaction amount. Similarly, if you made a 
purchase in India from a merchant registered overseas and payment is made using your Axis Bank 
Debit card in INR, a DCC Mark-up fee of 1% plus taxes will be levied on the transaction amount. 
FEATURES OF THE DEBIT CARD
The Bank may, from time to time, at its discretion, tie-up with various agencies to offer various features on your
Debit Card. The Bank does not guarantee or warrant the efficacy, efficiency, usefulness of any of the products
or PIN Services offered by any service providers / merchants / outlets / agencies. Disputes (if any) would have
to be taken up with the merchant / agency, etc. directly, without involving the Bank.
UNAUTHORISED ELECTRONIC BANKING TRANSACTIONS
The liability of the Bank or Customer for any unauthorised transaction shall be:
1. Zero Liability of a Customer - A customer's entitlement to zero liability shall arise where the unauthorised
transaction occurs in the following manner:
a. Contributory fraud / negligence / deficiency on the part of the bank (irrespective of whether or not
the transaction is reported by the customer)
b. Third party breach where the deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with the customer but lies
elsewhere in the system, and the customer notifies the bank within three working days of receiving 
the communication from the bank regarding the unauthorised transaction.
2. Limited Liability of a Customer- A customer shall be liable for the loss occurring due to unauthorised
transactions in the following cases:
a. In cases where the loss is due to negligence by a customer, such as where he has shared the
payment credentials, the customer will bear the entire loss until he reports the unauthorised
transaction to the Bank. Any loss occurring after the reporting of the unauthorised transaction shall 
be borne by the Bank.
b. In cases where the responsibility for the unauthorised electronic banking transaction lies neither with
the Bank nor with the Customer, but lies elsewhere in the system and when there is a delay (of four to
seven working days after receiving the communication from the bank) on the part of the customer in 
notifying the Bank of such a transaction, the per transaction liability of the customer shall be limited 
to the transaction value or '10,000/- whichever is lower.
3. The Bank will not offer facility of electronic transactions, other than ATM cash withdrawals, to
customers who do not provide valid mobile numbers.
In case the Customer notifies the Bank after seven working days of receiving the communication from the Bank
regarding the unauthorised transaction, the customer liability shall be determined as per the Banks board
approved policy. Bank shall evaluate and determine the same as per the Bank's board approved policy.
For escalation details, visit the Axis Bank website (www.axisbank.com) and go through Bank's Grievance
Redressal Policy or visit your nearest Axis Bank branch.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
1. When requested by Axis Bank, you shall provide any information, records or certificates relating to any
matter that Axis Bank deems necessary. You will also authorise Axis Bank to verify the veracity of the
information furnished by whatever means or from whichever source deemed necessary. If the data is
not provided or if the same is found incorrect, Axis Bank may, at its discretion, refuse renewal of the
Card or cancel the Card forthwith.
2. Axis Bank reserves the right to disclose customer information in any court of competent jurisdiction,
quasi-judicial authorities, law enforcement agencies and any other wing of Central Government or
State Government.
3. Axis Bank reserves the right to disclose, in strict confidence, to other institution, such information
concerning the Cardholder's account as may be necessary or appropriate in connection to its
participation in any Electronic Fund Transfer network.
4. Axis Bank reserves the right to report to the RBI expenditure undertaken by its Cardholder in foreign
currencies to ensure that the Basic Travel Quota / other permissible entitlements are not exceeded by
the Cardholder(s) and that the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 is not contravened.
LOST OR STOLEN CARD
1. In the event that the Card is lost or stolen, the occurrence must be reported to any office of Axis Bank in
India on the emergency contact number or to the MasterCard / Visa / RuPay Global Service Centers
Helplines whilst abroad. You can Block your card using any of the following channels: 
• SMS “BLOCKCARD” and send it to 5676782 or +919717000002 
• Call on Emergency Helpline Number +91-22-67987700; to speak with customer executive who will assist 
customer.
• Login to your Internet Banking account and select “Block Card” option in Debit Card section.
• Login to Axis App Open. Visiting Banking>Services>Debit Cards> Block & Replace 
2. The loss or theft of the Debit Card should be reported to Axis Bank immediately. Although loss or theft may
be reported by means of the 24-Hour emergency Helpline Number, you must confirm the same in writing to 
Axis Bank branch or email id Axis Bank support as soon as possible. A copy of that acknowledged police 
complaint must accompany the said written confirmation.
3. Should transactions be received by Axis Bank after the Card has been lost or stolen but before receipt of
your written confirmation, you shall be liable for all amounts debited to your account(s). However, if prior to 
the receipt of the written confirmation, if it can be proven that the Card was safeguarded, the loss / theft 
promptly reported and that you acted in good faith and with reasonable care and diligence, your lost Card 
liability for purchase transactions will be insured up to the specified limit (once the loss is reported in writing). 
There will be no such coverage provided on cash withdrawals done through ATMs, as such transactions 
require the use of a PIN, which is confidential to you.
4. You hereby indemnify Axis Bank fully against any liability (civil or criminal), loss, cost, expenses, or damages
that may arise due to loss or misuse of the Card in the event that it is lost and not reported to Axis Bank or 
lost and misused before Axis Bank is informed.
5. Provided you have in all respects complied with the terms and conditions, a replacement Card may be issued 
at the sole discretion of Axis Bank at the applicable fee.
6. Should you subsequently recoverthe Card, it cannot be used.Please destroy the Card by cutting it into several 
pieces through the magnetic strip.
INSURANCE
1. You acknowledge that the insurance benefit provided on the Card will be available to you as per the terms 
of the relevant insurance policy in force and only so long as you are and remain as active Cardholder of
Axis Bank with your account conduct being deemed satisfactory and in event of the Card and / or account 
facility being terminated for whatever reason, the benefit of such insurance cover shall automatically and
ipso facto cease to be available from the date of cessation of membership.
2. Axis Bank reserves the right to discontinue the insurance facility so offered at any time. In such an event,
the cardholders shall be informed about the cut-off date. Any decision of Axis Bank in this case shall be 
final.
3. The Zero Lost Card Liability / Purchase Protection / Personal Accident (Death Cover only) coverage is
provided to Cardholders by New India Assurance Company Limited (or any other General Insurance
Company as may be identified by Axis Bank from time to time), whose terms, conditions, and decisions, for 
which Axis Bank is not liable, will apply.
4. Axis Bank does not hold any warranty and / or make representation about quality, delivery of the cover,
claims processing or settlement of the claim by the New India Assurance Company Limited (or any other 
General Insurance Company as may be identified by Axis Bank from time to time) in any manner
whatsoever.
5. You may be asked to submit additional documents, as per the requirements of the case. Axis Bank shall 
not be liable for any delayed settlement of the claims.
6. As per the terms & conditions of the Insurance policy, to raise claim against Personal Accident Insurance 
cover, intimation and required document submission should be completed within 50 calendar days from 
the date of death of the customer.
7. To be eligible for Personal Accident coverage, customer should have done at least one POS transaction in
last 90 days. Please note it is death only cover and any other medical conditions will not be covered. Death 
due to natural causes will also be outside the coverage of this cover.
8. For RuPay cards Personal Accident Insurance claims have to be intimated within 30 days and debit card to 
be used once within 45 days for a valid financial / non-financial transaction.
9. The cardholder shall bear the loss sustained up to the time of notification to the bank of any loss, theft or
copying of the card but only up to a certain limit as per the lost card liability limit mentioned in the usage
guide, except where the cardholder acted fraudulently, knowingly or with extreme negligence.
10. Further queries or assistance regarding the policy, exclusions and claim settlements can be directed to:
The New India Assurance Co. Ltd., D.0 112700, 22, 2nd Floor, Mittal Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai 
- 400 021
11. Available Insurance cover shall be entirely dependent on your card type wherever applicable. For details 
refer, https://www.axisbank.com/retail/cards/debit-cards, as per your card type under Explore more option.
12. For claim process please refer link - https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-documentlibrary/insurance/terms-and-conditions-for-insurance.pdf
STATEMENT AND RECORDS
1. The records of Card transactions will be available on the account statement sent by Axis Bank. Such
account statements shall be mailed to the Cardholder on a periodic basis to the mailing address
corresponding to the primary account on record as indicated by the Cardholder. The Cardholder can also
get the details of his transactions by calling Axis Bank Phone Banking Service or utilising the mini statement 
facility at Axis Bank ATMs. The Cardholder may also view his statement online by using iConnectTM- the 
Internet Banking facility offered by Axis Bank. A separate application form available atAxis Bank branches
has to be filled and submitted at an Axis Bank branch by the Cardholder to avail of iConnectTM.
2. Axis Bank's record of transactions processed using the Card shall be conclusive and binding for all
purposes.
DISPUTES
1. In case of purchase transactions, a sales slip of the Cardholder together with the Card number noted
thereon shall be conclusive evidence between Axis Bank and the Cardholder as to the extent of the liability
incurred by the Cardholder and Axis Bank shall not be required to ensure that the Cardholder has received 
the goods purchased / availed of the service availed to the Cardholder's satisfaction.
2. Axis Bank shall make bonafide and reasonable efforts to resolve an aggrieved Cardholder's disagreement
with an applicable charge indicated in the account statement or as otherwise determined by the customer
within two months of the receipt of notice of disagreement. If after such efforts Axis Bank determines that 
the charge is incorrect, it shall communicate the same to the Cardholder.
3. Axis Bank accepts no responsibility for the refusal of any establishment to honour the Card.
4. This agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of India. All disputes are 
subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of Mumbai, India irrespective of whether any other court 
may have concurrent jurisdiction in the matter.
5. The Cardholder will be liable for all the costs associated with the collection of dues, legal expenses (should 
it become necessary to refer the matter to any agent), or where legal resources have been utilised in the 
resolution of a dispute.
6. Bank shall be responsible for direct losses incurred by a cardholder due to a system malfunction directly
within the bank's control. However, the bank shall not be held liable for any loss caused by a technical 
breakdown of the payment system which is beyond its reasonable control. Further, in case the breakdown
of the system was recognisable for the cardholder by a message on the display of the device or otherwise 
known. The responsibility of the bank for the non-execution or defective execution of the transaction is 
limited to the principal sum and the loss of interest subject to the provisions of the law governing the 
terms.
 
GENERAL
1. You will promptly notify Axis Bank in writing of any change in your employment and / or office and / or 
residential address and telephone numbers.
2. Axis Bank reserves the right to add to, delete or vary any of the terms and conditions, policies, features,
and benefits upon 30 days’ notice to the Cardholder. Failure to withdraw within the notice period of 30
days, would be considered deemed acceptance by the Cardholder of the revised terms.
3. Any notice hereunder sent by post will be deemed to have been received by the Cardholder within 7
calendar days from the posting of the notification to the address last given to Axis Bank in writing by 
the Cardholder. Publication of changes by such means as Axis Bank may consider appropriate will
constitute effective notice to the Cardholder thereof.
4. If an accountholder, by using the Card, draws an amount more than the balance available or overdraft
limit permitted by Axis Bank, the accountholder will pay Axis Bank unconditionally the entire amount
overdrawn with interest and penalties, if any, at a rate decided by Axis Bank. However, this should not
be construed as an agreement, either expressed or implied that Axis Bank is bound to grant any
overdraft facility whatsoever.
5. Axis Bank makes no representations about the quality of the goods and services of third parties
providing benefits such as discounts to Cardholders. Axis Bank will not be responsible if the service is
in any way deficient or otherwise unsatisfactory.
6. In all matters relating to the Debit Card, the decision of the Bank shall be final and binding in all respects.
7. Any person taking advantage of the Debit Card in good standing shall be deemed to have read,
understood and accepted these terms and conditions.
TERMINATION
1. Axis Bank reserves the right to cancel / withdraw the Card or any of the other services offered at any 
time without prior notice and without assigning any reason.
2. If the Cardholder decides to close his account with Axis Bank, the Card(s) issued with this account, 
as the primary account would automatically stand cancelled. The Cardholder(s) must immediately 
cease to use his Card and destroy and return all his / additional Cards that are linked to this account. 
In case of any outstanding Card transactions that have not yet been debited to the account the same 
will be netted off from the balance prior to Axis Bank returning funds to him. 
3. In the event that the Cardholder decided to terminate the use if the Debit Card, the Cardholder shall 
give Axis Bank not less than 7 calendar days prior notice in writing at your respective Axis bank branch 
and forthwith return the Card and any additional Card (if not required) cut into several pieces through 
the magnetic strip, to Axis Bank. The Cardholder will be responsible for all the Card facilities and 
related charges incurred on the Debit Card after the Cardholder claims to have destroyed the Card, 
notwithstanding the termination of the applicability of these terms and conditions. The Cardholder will 
be responsible for all the charges incurred on the Debit Card whether or not the same are a result of 
misuse / fraudulent use and whether or not the Bank has been intimated of the destruction of the Card. 
Cardholder can block his / her card at link https://www.axisbank.com/retail/cards/debit-cards/usefullinks/total-control?cta=debit-card-total-control. Cardholder can also call at our customer care numbers.
4. The Card is the property of Axis Bank and must be returned to an Officer of Axis Bank immediately and 
unconditionally upon request. Please ensure that the identity of the Bank Officer is established by you 
before handing over your Card. 
5. Axis Bank shall be entitled to terminate the Debit Card facility with immediate effect and the Card shall 
be returned upon occurrence of any of the following event: I. Failure to comply with the terms and 
conditions herein set forth ii. An event of default under an agreement or commitment (contingent or 
otherwise) entered with Axis Bank. iii. The Cardholder becoming the subject of any bankruptcy, 
insolvency proceedings or proceedings of a similar nature. iv. Demise of the Cardholder. v. Closure of 
the Cardholder's account or failure to maintain the minimum average balance in the said account. vi. If 
cardholder does a transaction on prohibited merchants as directed by RBI in circular RBI/2013-14/265.
6. The Debit Card should be returned to Axis Bank prior to the date upon which any changes are to take 
effect, in case of the Cardholder's rejection of any of the proposed changes to the features, changes or 
terms and conditions applicable to the Card. 
Disclosure in the Card member agreement:
You further authorise the Bank to disclose such information to Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Income Tax 
Authorities, Credit Rating Agencies, or any other Government or regulatory authorities / bodies / departments 
as and when so demanded. You further authorise the Bank to verify, share and / or disclose your name to 
the aforesaid authorities including banks, financial institutions, credit bureau / agencies, data banks, third 
parties in the event you default in payment or compliance of the Terms and Conditions of this Agreement. 
Axis Bank offers Debit cards with variety of features and benefits. For provision of the same, Axis Bank
employs various service providers on contractual basis to provide product features / benefits / other value
added services to Cardholder in terms of vouchers / discounts / cashbacks / memberships / insurance options
like card protections plans, Cardholders has expressly consented to and authorised Axis Bank to obtain,
collect, process, record, share and disclose Cardholder’s personal data including personal information and
sensitive personal information (“Personal Data”) with the authorised service providers of Axis Bank , for
the purpose of enrolment, card feature fulfilment, marketing, promotional activities, and benefit
redemption. The Cardholder understands and agrees that such consent shall hold valid for all applicable
Debit cards.
Consent to Third Party Calling
Axis Bank, in tie up with insurance companies, offers insurance cover with Axis Bank Debit Card to take care
of the liabilities arising out of lost cards, card frauds etc (“Insurance Cover”). If the Cardholder wishes to opt
in for availing any such Insurance Cover with the Axis Bank Debit Card, Cardholder confirms to have read,
understood, and agreed to the following terms and conditions set out below: 
1. Cardholder hereby provides explicit consent to Axis Bank to share his / her Personal Data with Axis
Bank’s authorised service providers and / or the tie-up insurance companies for the purpose of calling
and reaching out to offer the relevant insurance cover on Cardholder’s Axis Bank Debit Card and for
processing Cardholder’s Personal Data for availing such Insurance Cover (“Purpose”).
2. Axis Bank is committed to protecting Cardholder’s privacy and any Personal Data will be shared only
with Axis Bank’s authorised service providers and / or the tie-up insurance companies in accordance
with the applicable data protection laws and regulations. Axis Bank and its authorised service providers
/ the tie-up insurance companies shall implement reasonable security measures to safeguard Personal
Data while sharing the Personal Data for the Purpose.
3. Axis Bank confirms that it shall ensure that the frequency of such callings for the Purpose will be
reasonable and in compliance with relevant regulations. Axis Bank strives to provide Cardholder with
valuable information without causing inconvenience.
4. Axis Bank reserves the right to modify these terms and conditions. Any changes will be
communicated to the Cardholder through appropriate channels.
Confidentiality
Card-issuers should not reveal any information relating to customers obtained at the time of opening the 
account or issuing the card to any other person or organisation without obtaining their explicit consent, with 
regard to the purpose(s) for which the information will be used and the organisations with whom the 
information will be shared.
Bank Contact details for queries, report loss of card, report fraud, block card:
• 1860 500 5555 or 1860 419 5555 accessible from any landline or cell phone in India 
• +91 - 22-27648000 accessible from outside India. 
• Call: 022 67987700 
• SMS: +919951860002 
• SMS: “BLOCKCARD” to 5676782
• Email: axisbank.com / support
• WhatsApp ‘Hi’ to 7036165000
DISCLAIMER: 
The Bank, its employees, agents or contractors shall not be liable for, and in respect of any loss or damage whether 
direct, indirect or consequential, including but not limited to the loss of revenue, profit, business, contracts, 
anticipated savings or goodwill, loss of use or value of any equipment including software, whether foreseeable or 
not, suffered by the user or any person, howsoever, arising from or relating to any delay, interruption, suspension, 
resolution or error of the Bank in receiving and processing the request and in formulating and returning responses 
or any failure, delay, interruption, suspension, restriction, or error in transmission of any information or message 
to and from the telecommunication equipment of the user and the network of any service provider and the Bank's 
system or any breakdown, interruption, suspension or failure of the telecommunication equipment of the user, the 
Bank's system or the network of any service provider and / or any third party who provides such services as is 
necessary to provide the facility. Axis Bank may at its sole discretion, utilize the services of external service 
provider/s or agent/s and on such terms as required or necessary, in relation to its products. 
• Axis Bank will communicate the status of application form within 21 working days. 
• Axis Bank will never ask for card CVV, PIN, OTP or Internet password to offer any deals, gifts, vouchers, 
redemption of reward points, activation or cancellation of card. Kindly ignore such requests on call / email. 
Confirm Axis Bank contact numbers on the official website before any correspondence. 
• Please ensure authenticity of the website and / or portal before initiating any online / e-com transactions. 
Be aware of fake websites that defraud you of your money. 
• The card issued by the bank is for personal use of the customer. Bank does not encourage, or support 
transactions made on behalf or benefit of a third party. 
• In case of merchant refunds / disputes for international transactions, any rate difference arising out of 
currency fluctuation would be borne by the customer. 
Contact Channels
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL AND COMPENSATION FRAMEWORK:
Channels available to the customers for registering / lodgment of the complaints / concerns (Level 1 
complaints):
a. The Bank has enabled the following front-end touchpoints to customers to register their grievances on 
any of the products and services rendered by the Bank:
• Any of the Branches & Loan centers (for loan related complaints) of Axis Bank,
• The phone bank center / call center of the Bank 
• Email / Webchat channels of the Bank, 
• Axis support – Webpage on Axis bank website where customer can lodge complaints. 
• Axis Bank Social media handles 
b. The responses / resolution shall be provided as per the defined timeframes for various categories of 
transactions as covered in the Annexure hereto. The Bank uses appropriate system for tracking and 
reporting the grievances raised by customers. Interactions received through regulator are resolved as 
per timelines mandated by respective regulator.
c. All Level 1 complaints / disputes / concerns registered through the Bank’s call center, email / chat & 
walk-in at loan centers and branches will acknowledge the customer issue and capture the same in the 
appropriate system designated by the Bank for the purpose. 
d. Bank has a defined turnaround time of 10 days for a response related to Level 1 complaints / disputes / 
concerns. 
e. The following are the details for various touchpoints at first level:
Sr.No Channels Details
1
Call Centres / Phone 
Banking Centres 1800 209 5577
1860 500 5555
2 Website Support www.axisbank.com/support
3
Branches / Loan 
Centres
Please visit www.axisbank.com to locate the nearest 
branch / loan centre
Timeframes & Compensation:
1. Fraudulent / Unauthorised electronic banking transactions which includes remote / online payment 
transaction & proximity payment transactions (ATM / POS): 90 days 
2. Non Fraud / Service Related (POS / Ecom) disputes: 120 days (Network defined timelines) 
3. If customers issue remains unresolved after approaching Level 1 / Level 2 / Level 3 or if the bank has not 
provided a resolution within 30 days customer may choose to refer the matter to the Banking 
Ombudsman’s office.
To 
Mr. Ashok Sunar, Nodal Officer
In case grievance remains unresolved or if the customer is not satisfied with the response, the customer can 
approach the Nodal Office of Axis Bank along with the ticket number shared by Working hours 9:30 AM to 5:30 
PM (Monday to Friday except Bank holidays) 
Postal address Nodal Officer, Axis Bank Ltd, NPC1, 5th Floor, "Gigaplex", Plot No I.T.5, MIDC, Airoli Knowledge 
Park, Airoli, Navi Mumbai-400708. 
Registered Address Axis Bank Limited, ‘Trishul’, 3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheswar Temple, Near Law Garden, 
Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad - 380 006
Links for MITC available in regional languages:
Hindi : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-hindi
Marathi : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-marathi
Gujarati : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-gujrati
Assamese : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-assamese
Kannada : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-kannada
Bengali : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-bengali
Malayalam : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-malayalam
Odia : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-odia
Punjabi : https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/default-document-library/debit-card-mitc-punjabi.pdf