DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 1 of 15
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY 
2025-2026
VERSION NO. 4.00 
RECOVERY, LEGAL AND FRAUD PREVENTION WING,
LEGAL SECTION 
HEAD OFFICE 
112, J C ROAD 
BENGALURU -560002 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 2 of 15
INDEX
SL NO CONTENTS PAGE NO
1 Introduction 3
2 Background 3
3 Types of settlement 3
3(a) Procedure for settlement of claims based on Nomination 3
3(b) Procedure for settlement of claims based on production of 
legal representation: 4
3(c) Procedure for settlement in the absence of any Nomination 
or legal representation 6
3(c)4
NRIs/ Foreign National as Claimants 8
3(c)5 Safe Deposit Lockers 8
3(c)6 Release of original movable/ immovable property documents 8
4 Delegation of Powers 10
5 Claims in joint accounts/ lockers with survivorship mandate 10
6
Claims in Joint accounts/ lockers without survivorship 
mandate 11
7 Safe Custody Articles 11
8 Gold Loans 12
9 Claims in Non-Resident accounts 12
10 Payment of Interest 13
11 Settlement of claims in respect of Missing persons 14
12 Web-portal – Online Submission Of Death Claims 15
14 Compliance & Monitoring of implementation of the Policies 15
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 3 of 15
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 2025-26
1. INTRODUCTION:
Bank has adopted a simplified Policy and Procedure for enabling speedy and hassle-free 
settlement of Claim applications received by its Domestic Branches in respect of deceased 
customers as well as persons reported missing, from their nominees or legal heirs. This Policy 
intends to lay down the broad framework with respect to settlement of claims in respect of 
Deposits as well as Safe Deposit Lockers. Duly filled and completed claim forms along with 
proof of death of the depositor and KYC documents of claimants are to be submitted at home 
branch. Either the claimant can submit online claim through Bank’s Web portal for Death Claim 
Settlement & submit the complete set of original documents to Branch before final 
credit/receipt of claim amount and / or articles, or can submit complete set of documents 
directly to Branch for updating in the portal with the assistance of Branch staff and processing 
thereafter.
2. BACKGROUND:
Based on the RBI advisory, Indian Bank’s Association (IBA) had circulated a Model Operational 
Procedure (MOP) for settlement of claims of deceased depositors. IBA had also finalized the 
guidelines for settlement of claims in respect of deceased locker- hirers/depositors of safe 
custody articles. All the Banks were advised to have a Board approved policy on claim 
settlement of deceased and missing persons. RBI also has, from time to time, issued detailed 
guidelines for evolving simplified procedure for settlement of claims in respect of deceased 
depositors as well as on various issues relating to safe deposit lockers/safe custody articles 
and settlement of claims in respect of missing persons. RBI vide their Circular RBI /2021-
2022/86DOR.LEG.REC/40/09.07.005/2021-22 dated 18.08.2021 issued revised instructions on 
Safe Deposit Locker/Safe Custody Article Facility provided by the Banks.
3. TYPES OF SETTLEMENT:
(a) Settlement based on Nomination;
(b) Settlement based on production of Legal Representation (Succession 
 Certificate, Will, Letter of Administration etc); and
(c) Settlement in the absence of any Nomination or Legal Representation.
3 (a) procedure for settlement of claims based on Nomination
3(a)(1). In the deposit account / locker / Safe Custody where the deceased account holder 
has made a valid nomination in terms of Banking Companies (Nominations) Rules, 1985 and the 
same has been duly registered in Bank’s records in conformity with the said Rules, the Branches 
shall make payment of the balance amount / delivery of the contents of the locker in favour 
of the nominee. It is hereby clarified that payment / delivery of articles to the nominee is 
made only as a trustee of the legal heirs / legatee(s) of the deceased customer i.e. such 
payment given to the nominee shall not affect the right or claim which any person may have 
in that money / articles. By settling the claim with respect to the deposits/ Locker maintained 
by the deceased depositor(s) / Hirer(s) in favour of the Nominee shall discharge the Bank from 
all liabilities in this regard.
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 4 of 15
3(a)(2). The nominee shall make a request in this regard in the Format prescribed by the Bank. 
The following documents have to be obtained from the nominee along with the Application, 
when a claim for the deposit/ SDL is made by him/her:
(a) Death Certificate Issued by Competent Authority;
(b) KYC document of Nominee like Voter ID Card, Aadhar Card, Passport, Driving License 
copy or any other proof of identification acceptable to the Bank.
3(a)(3): Minor as a nominee
a) In case of minor as nominee in safe deposit lockers, an inventory of the articles shall be 
prepared in the presence of two independent witnesses, one officer of the bank who is 
not associated with the locker facility or safe deposit of articles and the claimant (s), 
who may be a nominee or an individual receiving the articles, on behalf of a minor.
b) A separate statement shall be obtained from the nominee (claimant) or the person 
competent to receive articles on behalf of the minor, as the case may be, that all the 
contents in the locker or in the safe custody of the bank, as the case may be, are 
received and the locker is empty and they have no objection to allotment of the locker 
to any other customer as per norms.
3(a)(4) - Settlements of claims under Nominations shall be dealt at the branch level itself 
irrespective of the amount and without linking it to Delegated Powers for Settlement of Death 
Claims. However, all the other procedural aspects shall be strictly adhered to.
3 (b) PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS BASED ON PRODUCTION OF LEGAL 
REPRESENTATION:
3(b)(1). Settlement based on Legal Representation shall include settlements based on 
Succession Certificate, Probate or Letter of Administration or court order. 
3(b)(2). Succession certificate is a document issued by a competent court (civil) certifying a 
rightful person to be the successor of a deceased person. It is a document that gives authority 
to the person who obtains it, to represent the deceased for the purpose of collecting debts 
and securities due to him or payable in his name. It establishes the legitimacy of the heirs and 
gives them the authority to get the assets and liabilities transferred in their names.
3(b)(3). A probate means a copy of a Will certified under the seal of a Court of competent 
jurisdiction with a grant of administration to the estate of the testator (Section 2(f) of Indian 
Succession Act 1925). A Probate is conclusive as to the representative title of the Executor to 
represent the estate. It is also conclusive proof as to the due execution of the Will and as to 
the genuineness of the Will. The effect of grant of the Probate is that it establishes the factum 
of the Will and the legal character of the Executor and all the property both movable and 
immovable of the deceased Testator vests in the Executor as from the date of the death and 
as long as the grant stands, the Executor is the legal representative of the deceased. 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 5 of 15
3(b)(4). It may be kindly noted that Probate is not mandatory in the case of Hindus, Buddhists, 
Sikhs or Jains, whose Wills are made outside the Presidency towns and in the case of 
Mohammedans and Indian Christians and any Will which is duly executed and attested by two 
Witnesses is valid in the eye of law. However, Probating of the Will should be mandatorily 
insisted upon in the case of Wills made by any Hindu, Buddhist, Sikh or Jain where the Wills 
are made in the Presidency towns i.e., Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai and in such other places 
notified by respective State Governments. 
3(b)(5). Letters of administration include any letters of administration, whether general or 
with a copy of the Will annexed or limited in time or otherwise. Letters of administration are 
also granted under Section 232 of the Indian Succession Act. When a person dies leaving a Will 
without appointing an executor or if the executor appointed by the Will is legally incapable or 
refuses to act or who has died before the testator or before he has proved the Will, an 
administrator can be appointed only by a competent court as distinguished from an executor 
who can be appointed only by a person by his Will or Codicil.
3(b)(6). The Claimants shall submit the duly executed application in the Format prescribed by 
the Bank along with the following documents, when a claim for the deposit/ SDL is made by 
him/her:
(a) Death Certificate Issued by Competent Authority*;
(b) Original Succession Certificate OR Probated Will OR Letter of Administration (as applicable)
* A deceased Claim where Death Certificate in respect of the deceased customer is issued 
outside of India, Banks to get such certificate authenticated by any one or more of the 
following modes, done in the country of its issuance. 
– Verified by the Branch / Office of our Bank within that country (wherever feasible) or
-Notarized by the Notary Public in that country, or
- Apostilled, or
– Consularized 
(c) Photograph and Proof of identification of Nominee viz., Voter ID Card, Aadhar Card, 
Passport, Driving License copy or any other proof of identification acceptable to the Bank.
3(b)(7). Where a Legal Representation in the said manner is produced by the Claimant(s), Bank 
is legally bound to make payment to the persons mentioned therein as per the terms of such 
Legal Representation irrespective of having registered nomination in the account and Bank will 
get a valid discharge by settling the claim in favour of such persons.
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 6 of 15
3 (c) PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT IN THE ABSENCE OF ANY NOMINATION OR LEGAL 
REPRESENTATION:
3(c)(1). Claims upto ₹ 10,000/-: Claim settlement can be made to any one or more of the 
claimants – preferably to the widow of the deceased, without insisting for signature of all the 
claimants. However, in such cases branch should obtain the claim-cum-declaration as per the 
prescribed format along with KYC of the claimant.
3(c)(2). Claims above ₹ 10,000/- upto ₹ 50,000/-: Claims arising out of other than 
testamentary succession in deposit accounts having aggregate balance of or in securities the 
value of the securities pledged with the Bank is Rs 50,000/- or below (the prevailing market 
value is the basis) is to be settled with death certificate issued by competent authority 
acceptable to the Bank, other claim forms & KYC of the claimants. 
Bank may settle the claim without asking the claimant to produce legal representation such 
as probate /succession certificate/letters of administration. However, Bank can call for 
claimant to provide Third Party Indemnity/Surety. If claimant is not willing to provide Third 
Party Indemnity/Surety, then the banks would be in order to require the claimant to produce 
legal representation such as probate/succession certificate/letters of administration. 
All claimants/ legal representative/legal heirs to visit the branch before sanctioning/crediting 
of the claim proceeds and / or receiving articles or goods along with the original application 
and requisite documents for verification & submission to the branch. Further, all claimants / 
legal representative/legal heir can nominate / authorise one of the claimant for receiving the 
proceeds/documents/articles on behalf of all. For NRI claimants, procedure is mentioned 
under "NRIs/ Foreign National as Claimants" in this policy which can be referred.
With regard to payment of balances in the accounts of deceased customers to survivors/ 
claimants, the branches may call for succession certificates from legal heirs of deceased 
depositors, in cases where there are disputes and all legal heirs do not join in indemnifying 
the bank or in certain other exceptional cases where the branch has a reasonable doubt, about 
the genuineness of the claimant/s being the only legal heir/s of the depositor.
When all the heirs are ready to sign claim form and indemnity bond, branch may not insist for 
succession certificate
3(c)(3) Claims above ₹ 50,000: 
(a). With respect to claims above 50,000/- the Claimants will have to furnish Application Form 
under NF 1020 along with the applicable annexures duly executed in the prescribed manner. 
The Claimants are also required to furnish the Death Certificate of the deceased issued by 
Competent Authority, along with Photograph and Proof of identification of Claimants, 
declarants and sureties (wherever applicable) viz., Voter ID Card, Aadhar Card, Passport, 
Driving License copy or any other proof of identification acceptable to the Bank. All claimants/ 
legal representative/legal heirs to visit the branch before approval/crediting of the claim 
proceeds and / or receiving articles or goods along with the original application and requisite 
documents for verification & submission to the branch. 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 7 of 15
Further, all claimants / legal representative/legal heir can nominate / authorise one of the 
claimant for receiving the proceeds/documents/articles on behalf of all. For NRI claimants, 
procedure is mentioned under "NRIs/ Foreign National as Claimants" in this policy which can 
be referred.
PERSON DIED ABROAD 
A deceased Claim where Death Certificate in respect of the deceased customer is issued 
outside of India, Banks to get such certificate authenticated by any one or more of the 
following modes, done in the country of its issuance. 
– Verified by the Branch / Office of our Bank (wherever feasible) within that country or
-Notarized by the Notary Public of that country, or
- Apostilled, or
– Consularised
a) In case of accounts where nomination is held, Bank's may not ask for any document other 
than Death Certificate (of the Deceased Customer) and KYC documents of the Claimant(s).
(b). The full set of original claim application along with all required documents should be 
submitted to the branch either offline, directly to branch counter or can be submitted online 
through Bank’s death claim portal and later the originals can be submitted to branch by all 
the claimants together, before crediting the amount. Detailed process for online registration 
of death claim is explained in point 12 of this policy. 
(c). Claim application must necessarily be attested by any one of the following: i) Village 
Headman; ii) Any Municipal Councillor; iii) A customer of the Bank; or iv) Any other respectable 
person known & acceptable to the Bank. Claim application, NF-1020 must be signed by all the 
major legal heirs. In respect of minors, natural guardian or the guardian appointed by the 
court or by the District Court under Mental Health Act or by the Local Level Committee under 
the National Trust Act, 1999 must sign it on behalf of the minors also.
(d). In all the claims above ₹ 50,000/- the claimants will have to execute a letter of 
declaration, along with stamped and notarized affidavits from two independent persons well 
known to the family of the deceased and acceptable to the Bank or any account holders of the 
Bank known to the family of the deceased. 
In all the cases the receiving Branch officials (processing/ recommending/ sanctioning) has to 
satisfy themselves that all the necessary forms/ documents have been submitted as per the 
existing guidelines and that they have been duly filled in and executed.
Where the Claim amount is above Rs. 5 Lakhs, the Claimants will have to furnish Indemnity 
cum Surety in the prescribed formats from two persons who shall be other than claimants, 
who are good for the amount. If one surety is considered good for the amount by the bank, 
second surety is not necessary. “Good for the amount” defined as the net worth of the sureties 
should be equal to or more than the death claim amount above a threshold limit of Rs. 5.00 
lacs.
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 8 of 15
3(c)4: NRIs/ Foreign National as Claimants 
In such instances where the Claimants are NRIs/ Foreign Nationals who are staying abroad and 
it is not possible to come to India for completion of formalities, they shall execute the 
necessary forms/ documents in the presence of officials of Indian Embassy/ High Commission 
at the Country where they are residing. However, such documents will have to be duly 
adjudicated as per the respective Stamp Act (if applicable) upon their entry in India within 
the prescribed time limits before submitting the same to the bank for processing the claim. 
As per Sec (18) 1 of the Indian Stamp Act, every instrument (except bill of exchange and 
promissory note) executed out of India, may be stamped within three months after it has been 
first received in India, as per Stamp Duty applicable at respective states. As such, the 
respective branch of our Bank or a person in India, whoever receives documents executed by 
the person staying abroad can submit the same for adjudication on behalf of the person staying 
abroad.
In all the cases the receiving Branch has to satisfy itself that all the necessary forms/ 
documents have been submitted as per the existing guidelines and that they have been duly 
filled in and executed. 
3(c)(5). Safe Deposit Lockers: The method of preferring claims is similar to that as in the case 
of deposits above 50,000/-. Along with the Claim Application, Death Certificate and KYC 
Documents, the Claimants will have to execute (i) a letter of declaration, (ii) stamped and 
notarized affidavits from two independent persons well known to the family of the deceased 
and acceptable to the Bank or any account holders of the Bank known to the family of the 
deceased (iii) Indemnity cum Surety from two persons who shall be other than claimants, who 
are acceptable to the Bank, in the prescribed formats. 
All Claims shall be settled and the payments shall be made to survivor(s)/ nominee, within a 
period not exceeding 15 days from the date of receipt of the claim subject to the production 
of the proof of death of the depositor and suitable identification of the claimants to the Bank’s 
satisfaction.
3(c)6. RELEASE OF ORIGINAL MOVABLE/ IMMOVABLE PROPERTY DOCUMENTS
In compliance to RBI direction regarding responsible lending conduct – Release of Movable / 
Immovable Property Documents on Repayment/ Settlement of Personal Loans issued vide Cir. 
RBI/2023-24/60 DoR.MCS.REC.38/ 01.01.001 /2023-24 dated 13th September, 2023. 
Further as per RBI master directions RBI/2015-16/59 DBR No.Leg.BC.21/09.07.006/ 2015-16 
dated 01st July, 2015, Banks had represented that the principle of not obtaining succession 
certificates etc., could be extended for settlement of claims in respect of other assets of 
deceased customers including securities held against advances after adjustment thereof. 
Banks are advised not to insist upon legal representation for release of other assets of deceased 
customers irrespective of the amount involved.
Banks may, however, call for succession certificates from legal heirs of deceased borrowers in 
cases where there are disputes and all legal heirs do not join in indemnifying the bank or in 
certain other exceptional cases where the bank has a reasonable doubt about the genuineness 
of the claimant/s being the only legal heir/s of the borrower.
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 9 of 15
Hence, to release the original movable/immovable property documents held in the name of 
deceased borrower which can be handed over to the legal heirs after full repayment of dues/ 
liabilities due to the deceased as mentioned below: -
 The Claimants are required to furnish the Death Certificate of the deceased issued by 
Competent Authority, produce legal representation such as probate /succession 
certificate/letters of administration/court orders along with Photographs and Proof of 
identification of Claimants/ legal representatives/ legal heirs viz., Voter ID Card, 
Aadhar Card, Passport, Driving License copy or any other proof of identification 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 All claimants/ legal heirs should visit the branch for collecting the documents. Further, 
such release of original movable/immovable property documents to legal 
heirs/surviving mortgagor/asset owners shall be subject to obtaining permission from 
the Regional Head through the Recovery & legal section. In case of branches are 
reporting directly to Circle Office, such permission to be obtained from the Circle Head. 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 10 of 15
4. DELEGATION OF POWERS *
With a view to settle the claims speedily, the following powers are delegated for settlement 
of death claims wherever there is no Nomination:
Sl 
No
Authority Powers
(In ₹/Lakh)
1
Managers/ Senior Managers heading branches (Officers heading 
Branches - Claims to be settled at Regional Offices through the 
Recovery & Legal Section RO 
2.00
2 Executives in Scale IV heading the Branches 3.00
3 Executives in Scale IV in ROs 5.00
4 Executives in Scale V heading the Branches 5.00
5 Executives in Scale V in ROs/heading ROs 10.00
6
Wherever the Executives of Scale IV & V heading the branches 
are on leave / absence beyond 7 days, powers to Managers / 
Senior Managers
2.00
7 Deputy General Managers heading Branches Full Powers
8 Deputy General Managers of ROs/ COs Full Powers
9
Safe Deposit Lockers & Safe Custody Articles irrespective of the 
amount
DGM, Circle 
Office
* Applicable to claims where there are no nominations. Wherever nomination is 
 available, Branch head can settle the claim irrespective of the amount. 
5. CLAIMS IN JOINT ACCOUNTS/ LOCKERS WITH SURVIVORSHIP MANDATE
5(1). SB / Current Accounts: 
1.1. A joint account opened as “Either or Survivor” or “Anyone or Survivors” or “Former or 
Survivor” or “Later or Survivor” will permit the surviving account holder(s) to have 
unimpeded access to the credit balance in the account for withdrawal if one of the coaccount holders dies. If the mandate of survivorship is given / provided, the survivor(s) 
can give a valid discharge to the bank in the case of “Either or Survivor” / “Anyone or 
Survivors” and “Former or Survivor” / “Later or Survivor” type of joint accounts.
1.2. With survivorship clause, on the death of one depositor (or more but not all) survivor/s 
can operate the account duly deleting the name of the deceased. On the death of one 
depositor (or more but not all) without survivorship clause, claim to be settled in favour 
of Legal heirs of the deceased and survivor/s. 
1.3. On the death of all the depositors, claim to be settled in favour of legal heirs of all the 
depositors (or any one of them as mandated by all the legal heirs). 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 11 of 15
5(2) Term Deposits: 
2.1. With respect to Term Deposits opened with the mandate of “Either or Survivor” or 
“Former/Later or Survivor”, in the case of death of one or more joint depositors (but not all) 
on or after maturity of deposit, claim has to be settled in favour of survivor/s.
2.2. When one of the depositors dies before maturity of deposit and amount is claimed before 
maturity, claim has to be preferred based on the mandate given by the depositor in account 
opening form at the time of opening of the Term Deposit.
2.3. If any of the depositors dies before/after maturity of deposit and the amount is claimed 
on or after the date of maturity of the deposit, the claim shall be settled to the surviving 
depositor/s without referring to the legal heirs of the deceased depositor/s.
2.4. On the death of all the depositors, claim has to be preferred by legal heirs of all the 
depositors (or any one of them as mandated by all the legal heirs).
5(3) Safe Deposit Lockers:
3.1 In case of a Locker hired jointly with “Either or Survivor” mandate, in the event of death 
of one or more joint hirers (but not all), survivor/s will be given access to the locker and 
liberty to remove the contents.
3.2 On the death of all the joint hirers of locker the legal heirs of the joint hirers (or any one 
of them mandated by all legal heirs) will be given access to the locker and liberty to remove 
the contents.
3.3 While giving access to the survivor(s) / nominee(s) of the deceased locker hirer / 
depositor of the safe custody articles, the production of succession certificate, letter of 
administration or probate, etc., or obtain any bond of indemnity or surety from the 
survivor(s)/nominee(s), should not be insisted upon unless there is any discrepancy in 
nomination.
6. CLAIMS IN JOINT ACCOUNTS/ LOCKERS WITHOUT SURVIVORSHIP MANDATE
On the death of one depositor/ Joint Hirer(s) (or more but not all) where operation is “jointly”, 
the claim has to be settled jointly to Legal heirs of deceased (or any of them as mandated by 
all the legal heirs) and survivors. On the death of all depositors/ Joint Hirer(s), claim has to be 
settled in favour of Legal heirs of all the depositors/Hirers, (or any one of them as mandated 
by all the legal heirs) on verification of the authority of the legal heirs and proof of the death 
of the depositor/Hirer. 
7. SAFE CUSTODY ARTICLES
Generally, safe custody articles are not accepted in joint names. Even if accepted in joint 
names, nomination facility is not provided. Nomination facility is available only in the case of 
individual depositor / sole proprietary concern.
In the case of Safe Custody Articles also, all the procedures with regard to Safe Deposit Lockers 
shall be complied with. All claims pertaining to Safe Custody Articles irrespective of the amount 
are to be referred to DGM Circle office for settlement.
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 12 of 15
8. GOLD LOANS 
1. Gold loan with nomination 
In order to enable the Branches in releasing the pledged gold ornaments to the nominees in 
the event of death of the borrowers, Nomination facility has been introduced for all Gold 
Loan Schemes. The said nomination facility is purely voluntary and is at the discretion of the 
borrower.
The jewels pledged by the borrower can be returned to the nominee in the event of his/her 
death on clearance of all dues due to deceased and legal heirs will be bound by the terms 
of the contract executed by the deceased borrower.
2. Gold loan without nomination 
In respect of gold loan without nomination, the claim has to be settled in favour of Legal 
heirs, (or any one of them as mandated by all the legal heirs) on verification of the authority 
of the legal heirs and proof of the death of the borrower on clearance of all dues standing 
in his/her and legal heirs will be bound by the terms of the contract executed by the 
deceased borrower.
Branches can settle the claim as per the Delegation of powers listed in Para IV of the policy. 
For the purpose of reckoning the claim amount, appraised value of gold ornaments as stated 
in the related pledge letter, should be taken into consideration.
9. CLAIMS IN NON-RESIDENT ACCOUNTS
1.Where Nomination is registered:
1.1. Remittance/Transfer of Funds to Non-resident Nominees:
The Banking Companies (Nominations) Rules, 1985 framed under Banking Regulations 
Act, 1949 enable banks to pay the amount standing to the credit of the deceased 
depositor to his nominee(s). 
Authorised Dealers are delegated with powers to allow remittance of funds lying 
NRE/FCNR (B) accounts of the deceased account holders to their non-resident nominees 
subject to the following conditions:
(a) Application submitted by the nominees
(b) A valid nomination has been registered on the bank’s records in favour of the 
nominees in conformity with the provisions of the above said Rules;
(c) The nominee continues to be non-resident at the time of the claim/remittance 
sought for from India and that the deceased depositor was non- resident at the 
time of his/her death.
(d) All the legal heirs are non-residents. A signed declaration to the effect duly 
witnessed may be submitted by the nominee to the Authorised Dealer.
All other cases which do not fulfil the aforesaid terms and conditions should be referred 
to respective Regional Office of RBI through FD/Fex Cell for prior approval in the 
application form as per Appendix 14 supported by documents indicated therein together 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 13 of 15
with the legal representation issued by an Indian Court for crediting the claim proceeds 
to NRE/FCNR (B) account of claimant. 
Utilization of the funds in India by the nominees is freely permitted and does not require 
prior permission of RBI. The amount may be credited to the NRO account of the nominee 
without any reference to RBI.
1.2. Remittance/Transfer of Funds to Resident Nominees:
In case the nominee is a resident, no reference to RBI is necessary for payment of the 
rupee funds to the resident nominee. However, the applications received from resident 
nominees for remittance of funds abroad for meeting the liabilities, if any, of the 
deceased account holder or for similar other purposes may be forwarded to Reserve 
Bank for consideration on merits. 
2. Where Nomination is not registered:
2(a) Remittance/Transfer of Funds to Resident Claimant 
The claims in respect of any deceased NRE account holder may be disbursed to the legal 
heirs’ resident in India, after complying with the same formalities as applicable in the case 
of disbursement of claims to the legal heirs of a resident account holder. All legal 
formalities as in the case of local disbursement are also to be complied with in such cases. 
2(b) Remittance/Transfer of Funds to Non-Resident Claimant 
Where the amount in NRE/ FCNR(B) account of deceased is claimed by a person other than 
nominee, the same should be referred to respective Regional Office of RBI through FD/Fex 
Cell for prior approval in the application form as per Appendix 14 supported by documents 
indicated therein together with the legal representation issued by an Indian Court for 
crediting the claim proceeds to NRE/FCNR (B) account of claimant. 
In case the claimant is an NRI, the amount may be credited to his NRO account and the 
amount may be repatriated abroad subject to conditions. Utilization of the funds in India 
by the nominees is freely permitted and does not require prior permission of RBI.
10. PAYMENT OF INTEREST:
In case of a term deposit standing in the name/s of a deceased individual depositor or two 
or more joint depositor(s), where one of the depositors has died, interest shall be paid in 
the manner indicated below:
(a) On the date of maturity, interest shall be paid at the contracted rate.
(b) In case of premature withdrawal, interest will be paid at applicable rate as on date 
with reference to the period for which the deposit has remained with the Bank 
without charging penalty
(c) In the event of death of the depositor before the date of maturity of the deposit and 
the amount of deposit is claimed after the date of maturity, the bank shall pay 
interest at the contracted rate till the date of maturity. From the date of maturity 
to the date of payment, the bank shall pay savings banks interest rate operative on 
the date of maturity, for the period for which the deposit remained with the bank 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 14 of 15
beyond the date of maturity. However, in the case of death of the depositor after 
the date of maturity of the deposit, the bank shall pay interest at savings deposit 
rate operative on the date of maturity from the date of maturity till the date of 
payment.
(d) In the case of a NRE deposit when the claimants are residents, the deposit on 
maturity will be treated as domestic rupee deposit and interest be paid for the 
subsequent period at a rate applicable to the domestic deposit of a similar maturity.
11. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF MISSING PERSONS:
Branches at times receive requests for settlements of claims in respect of persons reported 
missing from their nominees / legal heirs. As per the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 
presumption of death can be made only after a lapse of seven years from the date of a 
person being reported missing, i.e. the date when the FIR / non-traceable report was 
lodged. As such, the nominee / legal heirs have to raise and express presumption of death 
of the subscriber under Section 107/108 of the Indian Evidence Act before a competent 
court. If the court presumes that he/she is dead, then the claim in respect of a missing 
person can be settled on the basis of the same.
Keeping in view the imperative need to avoid inconvenience and undue hardship to the 
common person, a policy has been drafted and adopted by our Bank on settlement of claims 
in respect of missing persons, and the below mentioned guidelines are to be followed.
These guidelines on settlement of claims in respect of missing persons by the branch shall 
be applicable only in case of domestic deposit accounts of the missing person held in 
individual capacity and up to a limit of ₹ 50000/- (net amount shall be considered if any 
loan has been availed against the deposit as the prime security). Further, the settlement 
of claim shall be applicable only in case where the person has gone missing in India.
11.1 Settlement of Claims in respect of missing persons within the 
threshold limit: 
As per the extant guidelines, claims in respect of deposit accounts up to ₹ 50,000/- is 
considered as within the threshold limit and in such cases Branch Managers are authorized 
to settle the claims following a simplified procedure. Therefore, in respect of missing 
persons also claims up to ₹ 50,000/- is considered as threshold limit and branches are 
allowed to settle the claims from the nominee/legal heirs/survivor(s) of missing persons on 
production of the following documents: -
(a) FIR for reporting missing of a person. It should be confirmed that 7 years have elapsed 
since the date of reported missing.
(b) Non-traceable report issued by police authorities.
(c) Letter of Indemnity.
(d) Other documents applicable for Death Claims up to the Threshold limit.
11.2 Settlement of Claims in respect of missing persons above the 
threshold limit: 
DEATH CLAIM SETTLEMENT POLICY FOR THE FY 
2025-26
Page 15 of 15
In respect of claims of deceased depositors above the threshold limit, i.e. above ₹ 50,000/-
, in addition to the documents stipulated for Settlement of Death Claims, Order issued by 
competent Court raising express presumption of death of the depositor/customer under 
Sections 107/108 of Indian Evidence Act has to be produced, so as to settle the claims to 
the nominee/legal heirs/survivor(s).
12. WEBPORTAL – ONLINE SUBMISSION OF DEATH CLAIMS 
a) Claimant/Nominee can submit online death claim application through Canara Bank 
corporate website (www.canarabank.com) where a link for claim submission is available 
as “Death Claim- Register a claim” or through the web address 
https://canarabankcsis.in/DCS_WEB/ .
b) For further ease to claimant, blank formats of claim applications, forms and other 
formats are made available for download by the claimant, and also utility has been 
provided to upload duly filled & signed documents online for onward processing and 
sanction to the branch which can be done without visiting any of our branches in person
by the claimant.
c) Bank will check the application and other documents submitted, and may raise query 
online through the portal to the claimant for further requirement if needed, which 
claimant has to reply online through the portal and provide promptly for easy and fast 
processing of claim. 
d) Further, upon satisfying themselves with the scanned documents, images and other 
details, the Bank will process and sanction the claim. Claimant will receive intimation 
through SMS and / or e-mail at various stages of claim submission till sanction. Post claim 
sanction, claimant/s will receive intimation for the same through SMS and / or email 
then all the claimant/s have to visit the branch together along with complete set of 
original applications and documents for verification by Branch before transfer of claim 
proceeds and / or handing over of articles / goods to the claimant/s.
e) Post verification the amount will be credited to the claimant/nominee’s account and / 
or articles and goods shall be handed over as the claim may be. 
f) Further, in case full set of documents are submitted directly at branch, the same 
procedure will be followed by the Branch staff and claimant will be assisted in registering 
a claim online.
13. COMPLIANCE/ MONITORING OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICIES
Implementation of policy at Branches will be checked by Inspection Wing during RBIA & 
Concurrent inspection and deviations will be reported to Circles/ Legal Section, RL&FP Wing,
HO & to Audit committee of the Board.
Overseeing Executive of R & L Section in Circle to ensure that all Regional offices are adhering 
to the Policy guidelines. 
Overseeing Executive of Recovery & Legal Section in Regional Office to ensure that all Branches
are adhering to the policy guidelines.
***********************