Page 1 of 35
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL POLICY
VERSION NO. 15.0
2025-2026
CUSTOMER SERVICE SECTION
CUSTOMER SERVICE VERTICAL
OPERATIONS WING 
HEAD OFFICE
5th Floor, #86, SPENCER TOWER, M.G 
ROAD, BENGALURU -560001
Page 2 of 35
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL POLICY OF THE BANK FOR THE YEAR 2025-26
INDEX
Sl No. Contents Page no
A. Objectives 4
1 The customer complaint arises due to 4
B. Organisational Setup, Roles & Responsibilities 5
2 Internal Machinery to handle customer complaints / grievances 5
2.1 Internal Ombudsman 5
2.2 Complaint Redressal Mechanism in our Bank (Internal Machinery) 6
2.2.1 At Branch 6
2.2.2 At Regional Office 8
2.2.3 At Circle Office 9
2.2.4 At Head Office 9
3 Grievance Escalation System 13
3.1 Online Grievance Redressal System 13
3.1.a CRM-CPGRS (Canara Public Grievance Redressal System) 13
3.1.b Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) System For Digital Payments 15
4 RBI-Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 15
C. Strategies for meeting objectives 16
5 Standing Committee Meeting on Customer Service 16
6 Customer Service Committee of the Board 17
7 Nodal Officer and other designated officials to handle 
complaints and Grievances 
17
8 Mandatory display requirements 18
9 Timeline For Resolution of Complaints 19
D. Limit Structure/ Trigger Mechanism 19
10 Dispute Redressal Mechanism: Technological/Digital Products 19
10.1 Failed Transactions 21
10.2 UPI URCS- Revised Disputes TAT 24
10.3 Exception Handling 24
10.4 Chargebacks 24
10.5 ATM Credit/ Debit Transaction Adjustments 25
11 Net Banking 25
12 Mobile Banking 26
13 Interaction with Customers 26
14 Periodical training & sensitizing the operating staff on handling 
complaints
27
15 Home Loans-Levy of fore-closure charges/ pre-payment penalty 27
16 Uniformity on Intersol Charges 28
17 Charges for sending SMS alerts 28
18 Grievance Redressal on complaints against outsourced agencies/ 
employees
28
18.1 Recovery Agents (Monitored by RL&FP Wing) 28
18.2 Call Center Service (Monitored by Customer Service Vertical, 
Operations Wing)
29
18.3 Business Correspondents (Monitored by LB&FI Wing) 29
18.4 Operators at Aadhar Seva Kendras (Monitored LB&FI Wing) 30
Page 3 of 35
18.5 Formation of Women SHG & Facilitation in crediting of SHG/JLG 30
18.6 Direct Selling Agents (DSA - Monitored by Retail Asset Wing) 31
19. Resolution of Grievances under NPS and APY (Government 
Services Section, Resources Wing)
31
 a. Guidelines on operational activities to be followed by POP(Banks) 
while performing activities of NPS
32
 b. Customer Service Aspects of Senior Citizen /Pensioners 
(Damodaran Committee Recommendations on Customer Service -
2011)
32
20 Strengthening of Grievance Redress Mechanism in Banks 33
21 Handling complaints related to vigilance, bribery & corruption 
(handled by Vigilance Wing)
33
22 Complaints related to Credit Information Companies (CIC): 
(Monitored by Recovery, Legal and Fraud Prevention Wing)
34
E. Compliance / Monitoring of Implementation of the Policies 34
Annexure I - Enclosure to 10.1.iv Uniform Template 35
Page 4 of 35
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL POLICY – 2025-26
A. OBJECTIVES:
In a competitive banking environment, excellent customer service is crucial for 
sustained growth. The bank has historically prioritized customer satisfaction and 
taken various initiatives to improve it. Customer complaints are inevitable in any 
business. Being a service oriented organization, customer service and customer 
satisfaction is the prime concern for the Bank. Hence, we believe prompt and efficient 
service is essential for both attracting new customers and retaining existing ones. This 
policy document aims at minimizing instances of customer complaints through 
improved service delivery and a review mechanism. It also emphasizes the importance 
of addressing complaints quickly and effectively when they do arise. The review 
mechanism is intended to identify weaknesses in products and services, allowing the 
bank to make necessary improvements. 
The Bank's policy on Grievance Redressal follows the under noted principles:
a) Our customers will be treated fairly at all times.
b) Complaints raised by our customers will be dealt with courtesy, empathy and 
in time.
c) Our customers will be fully informed of avenues to escalate their complaints/ 
grievances within the organization and their rights to alternative remedy, if 
they are not fully satisfied with the response of the bank to their complaints.
d) Our Bank will treat all complaints efficiently and fairly as they can damage the 
Bank's reputation and business if handled otherwise.
e) Our employees will work in good faith and without prejudice to the interests 
of the customer.
f) Complaints emanating from rural areas and those relating to financial 
assistance to priority sector and Government Poverty alleviation programme 
also form part of the above process.
In order to make Bank's redressal mechanism more meaningful and effective, a 
structured system will function at Branches/ Regional Offices/ Circle Offices/Head 
Office, which will ensure that redressal sought is just and fair, and is within the given 
framework of rules and regulation. 
This policy document will be made available at all branches. All the employees will 
be made aware about the complaint handling process to ensure better customer 
service and general awareness in the Bank.
1. Customer complaint arises due to:
a) The attitudinal aspects in dealing with customers.
b) Inadequacy of the functions/ arrangements made available to the customers or 
gaps in standards of services expected and actual services rendered.
c) Malfunctioning of Technology products.
Above such complaints shall be accorded priority in grievance redressal.
Page 5 of 35
B. ORGANISATIONAL SETUP, ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES: (Monitored by Customer 
Service Vertical, Operations Wing, HO)
2. Internal Machinery to handle customer complaints/ grievances
a) If the customer wants to make a complaint, we will inform & guide:
 i. Where to make complaint
 ii. How a complaint should be made
 iii. When to expect a reply
 iv. Whom to approach for redressal
 v. What to do if he (customer/s) is not happy about the outcome/resolution.
b) The Bank will inform customers where to find details of complaint handling 
procedures for resolution of complaints fairly and quickly.
c) We prioritize written complaints by providing immediate acknowledgement and a 
unique reference number for tracking, generated through our online complaint 
portal. If a customer complaint is received through e-mail and telephone at our 
designated mail id (hocss1@canarabank.com), helpdesk/Call Centre via toll-free 
number (1800 1030), we shall record/register such complaint in complaint portal 
and provide a unique reference number for tracking purposes. This will enable us 
to keep customers informed of the progress and resolution within a reasonable 
timeframe.
d) We will provide a final response within 21 days of receiving the complaints (i.e. 
Other than digital financial transactions related complaints). If further 
investigation is required, we will explain the reason for the delay and provide an 
updated timeframe. If customers remain dissatisfied, we will advise them on how 
to escalate their complaint.
2.1 Internal Ombudsman
To ensure fair and impartial complaint resolution, the Bank has appointed an 
Internal Ombudsman—a retired General Manager from another bank—to oversee our 
grievance redressal process. Cases involving complaint rejection or partial relief 
are escalated to the Internal Ombudsman for a final, binding decision. The only 
exception is when the Bank's Executive Director in charge of customer service 
approves a disagreement with the Ombudsman's decision. This internal process 
aims to provide customers with faster, fairer resolutions without needing to 
escalate to external authorities like the Banking Ombudsman, RBI, Consumer 
Courts, or government portals. This mechanism is adopted by the Bank in tune with 
the RBI guidelines latest being, RBI/CEPD/2023-24/108 CEPD.PRD.No.S1228/ 
13.01.019/ 2023-24 dated 09.12.2023. This mechanism adopted by the Bank and is 
working efficiently.
Page 6 of 35
In accordance with RBI directives, all partially or wholly rejected complaints are 
escalated to the Internal Ombudsman within 20 days for a final decision.
However, all reopened complaints are escalated directly to Head Office and 
resolved only after review by the General Manager/Customer Service Vertical 
Head.
2.2. Complaint Redressal Mechanism in our Bank (Internal Machinery):
Bank has a nodal department and/or officials for customer service in Head Office and 
in each of its controlling offices (Circle Offices and Regional Offices) with whom 
customers with grievances can approach in the first instance and with whom the 
Banking Ombudsman and other departments can liaise.
The General Manager, Priority Credit Wing shall act as the Nodal Officer for monitoring 
of Credit Related grievances forwarded by the Ministry/ies for taking appropriate 
action on merits. 
Any complaint received through legal channel/advocates office will be replied by the 
recipient branch/RO/CO/HO after obtaining vetting/ opinion from Legal Section of 
the concerned RO/CO or Legal Section, RL& FP Wing at Head office.
2.2.1 At Branch: 
Resolution of Grievances
Branch Manager will be responsible for the resolution of the complaints/ grievances 
in respect of customer service by the Branch. He/ she would be responsible for 
ensuring closure of all complaints received at Branches. It is his/ her foremost duty 
to see that the complaint should be resolved completely to the customer's satisfaction 
and if the customer is not satisfied, then he shall be provided with alternate avenues 
to escalate the issue if the same is not resolved within the stipulated period. 
If the Branch Manager feels that it is not possible at his/ her level to solve the 
problem, he/ she may refer the case to Regional Office/ Circle Office or Head Office 
for guidance. Similarly, if Regional Office/ Circle Office find that they are not able to 
solve the problem; such cases may be referred to the Principal Nodal Officer of the 
Bank.
All complaints received by the Bank Branches outside to online grievance portals are 
to be entered in designated grievance Redressal packages i.e. CCR/CTS/CPGRS etc., 
on the same day of receipt of the complaint and due process to be followed further. 
a. Suggestion Box and complaint Book are provided in all the branches. Any written 
complaint is instantly and promptly acknowledged.
b. The Complaint Registers are to be kept at prominent place which would make 
it possible for the customers to enter their grievances. The register shall be in 
perforated copies in each set so that the acknowledgement to the customers 
would be provided instantly and an intimation to the controlling office.
Page 7 of 35
c. At every office of the Bank a notice requesting the customer “To meet the 
Branch Manager” shall be displayed with regard to Grievances, if it remains unredressed.
d. A copy of the complaint is required to be forwarded to the concerned 
controlling office of the bank along with the remark of the branch manager 
within a time frame (Within a maximum of 7 days depending upon the nature 
of Grievances). 
e. All branches should maintain a separate complaint register for entering all the 
complaints/ grievances received by them directly or through RO/ CO/ HO and 
other sources. These registers should be maintained irrespective of the fact 
whether a complaint is received or not in the past. Branch to maintain a 
separate file for customer complaints received through letters and related 
communications and grievance portal/package generated complaint number / 
reference to be inscribed on all such complaints which are received outside to 
grievance portal/ package and entered in the package. 
f. The complaint registers maintained by branches shall be scrutinized by the 
concerned Circle Nodal Executive during his periodical visit to the branches and 
his observations/ comments recorded in the relative visit reports. 
g. Bank having computerized operation may adopt the aforesaid format and 
generate copies electronically. Canara Bank has developed an in-house portal 
namely Canara Public Grievance Redressal System (CPGRS) in which all the 
complaints are registered and redressed. The data is maintained in the package 
electronically.
h. Grievances/ complaints relating to congestion in banking premises should be 
examined by the bank’s internal inspectors/ auditors on a continuing basis and 
action taken for augmentation of space, where ever necessary, keeping in view 
the availability of larger accommodation in the same locality at a reasonable 
rent and other commercial considerations.
i. Counter staff are provided with training and additional inputs.
j. If counter staff/ supervisor is unable to resolve a grievance, the Branch-incharge shall intervene and try to resolve the issue.
k. Customers’ Day is observed on 15th of every month. On this day, branch incharge will make himself/ herself available at the branch between 3 P.M. and 
5 P.M. to meet customers without any prior appointment.
l. Branch Level Customer Service Committees
Banks were advised to establish Customer Service Committees at branch level. 
In order to encourage a formal channel of communication between the 
customers and the bank at the branch level, banks should take necessary steps 
for strengthening the branch level committees with greater involvement of 
customers. It is desirable that branch level committees include their customers 
too. Further, as senior citizens usually form an important constituent in banks, 
a senior citizen may preferably be included therein. The Branch Level Customer 
Service Committee may meet at least once a month to study complaints/ 
Page 8 of 35
suggestions, cases of delay, difficulties faced/ reported by customers/ 
members of the Committee and evolve ways and means of improving customer 
service.
The branch level committees may also submit quarterly reports giving inputs/ 
suggestions to the Standing Committee on Customer Service thus enabling the 
Standing Committee to examine them and provide relevant feedback to the 
Customer Service Committee of the Board for necessary policy/ procedural 
action.
m.Customer Service Committee meeting is held every month at all Branches/ 
Regional Offices/ and Circle Offices. The sole task of the Committee is to find 
out ways and means to render service to the satisfaction of the Customers. For 
this purpose, Committee will meet regularly at stipulated intervals to discuss 
in detail the strengths and deficiencies of the services presently rendered and 
take steps to improve it.
n. Special Customers’ Meet is conducted on special occasions.
o. Every year, during November Customer Fortnight is observed to create 
awareness among Public as well as staff for achieving the objective of 
Complaint free branch network, and to also highlight our products and services.
p. Both the Drop box facility and the facility for acknowledgement of the cheques 
at regular collection counters shall be available to the customers and no branch 
shall refuse to give an acknowledgement if the customer tenders the cheque 
at the counters. 
q. Bank shall ensure that customers are not compelled to drop the cheques in drop 
box. 
r. Bank shall invariably display on the cheque drop box itself that ‘Customers can 
also tender the cheques at the counters and obtain acknowledgement on the 
pay-in-slips.’ This message is displayed in English, Hindi and the concerned 
regional language of the state.
s. On 15th of every month, Customers’ Day is observed between 3 P.M. and 5 P.M. 
during which Branch manager should be available for meeting the public/ 
Customers without prior appointment. 
2.2.2. At Regional Office:
a. Divisional Manager/ Assistant General Manager holding charge of Operations 
Section/Customer Service Section at Regional office.
b. By and large, complaints are redressed within shortest possible time.
c. Whenever it is not possible and more cross checking is required, steps are 
taken to settle the matter within a reasonable time.
d. The Executives of Regional Office visit branches periodically and submit a 
report on Customer Service, as per the detailed checklist.
e. Divisional Manager/ Assistant General Manager in-charge of Operations 
Section/Customer Service Section, Regional Office contact the aggrieved 
Page 9 of 35
customers as and when necessary, meet him personally with the Branch 
Manager, for ensuring timely redressal of the complaint.
f. Wherever deficiencies are noticed, accountability is fixed and erring 
employees punished.
2.2.3 At Circle Office: 
a. Divisional Manager/ Assistant General Manager holding charge of Operations 
Section /Customer Service Section at Circle office.
b. By and large, complaints are redressed within shortest possible time.
c. Whenever it is not possible and more cross checking is required, steps are 
taken to settle the matter within a reasonable time.
d. The Executives of Circle Office visit branches periodically and submit a report 
on Customer Service, as per the detailed checklist.
e. Divisional Manager/ Assistant General Manager in-charge of Operations/ 
Customer Service Section, Circle Office contact the aggrieved customers as 
and when necessary, meet him personally with the Branch Manager, for 
ensuring timely redressal of the complaint.
f. Wherever deficiencies are noticed, accountability is fixed and erring 
employees punished.
2.2.4 At Head Office: 
a. A full-fledged Customer Service Section is functioning at Customer Service 
Vertical, Operations Wing, Head Office, overseen by Chief General Manager. 
b. An acknowledgement is sent to the customer immediately on receipt of the 
complaint.
c. Thorough analysis of the complaint is done and necessary instructions are 
given to COs/ROs/Branches for speedy redressal and followed up till final 
reply is sent to the complainant duly explaining the decision taken on the 
complaint.
d. On 15th of every month, Customers’ Day is observed between 3 p.m. and 5 
p.m. during which overseeing Executives are available for meeting the public/ 
Customers without prior appointment. 
e. Special Customers’ Meets are organized for different segments of the market, 
viz., Exporters, MSME, NRI, Agriculturists, etc, by respective wings.
f. Customer Satisfaction Surveys through In-house as well as by External 
agencies are conducted to assess the level of customer satisfaction.
g. Bank shall place a statement of complaints before the Customer Service 
Committee of the Board along with an analysis of the complaints received. 
The complaints shall be analyzed to identify customer service areas in which 
the complaints are frequently received, to identify frequent sources of 
complaints, to identify systemic deficiencies and for initiating appropriate 
action to make the grievance redressal mechanism more effective.
h. Root Cause Analysis of the complaints will be conducted by the owner / user 
Wings in co-ordination with Customer Service Vertical. 
i. The Bank shall disclose following details along with financial results:
Page 10 of 35
A. Summary information on complaints received by the bank from customers and 
from the Office of Banking Ombudsman.
Sl 
no
Previous 
year
Current 
year
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of 
the year
2 Number of complaints received during the year
3 Number of complaints disposed during the year
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the 
bank
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the 
year
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from 
Office of Banking Ombudsman.
5 Number of maintainable complaints received by 
the bank from OBOs
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour 
of the bank by Bos
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through 
conciliation/mediation/advisories issued by Bos
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after 
passing of Awards by BOs against the bank
6 Number of Awards unimplemented within the 
stipulated time (other than those appealed)
B. Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers
Grounds of 
complaints, 
(i.e. 
complaints 
relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the 
beginning of 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
decrease in the 
number of 
complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, number 
of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1 2 3 4 5 6
Current Year
Ground – 1
Ground – 2
Ground – 3
Ground – 4
Ground – 5
Others
Total
Previous Year
Ground – 1
Ground – 2
Ground – 3
Page 11 of 35
Ground – 4
Ground – 5
Others
Total
Master list of grounds of complaints to be used for disclosure on the top five groundwise receipt of complaints by banks. 
1. ATM/Debit Cards 
2. Credit Cards 
3. Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking 
4. Account opening/difficulty in operation of accounts 
5. Mis-selling/Para-banking 
6. Recovery Agents/Direct Sales Agents 
7. Pension and facilities for senior citizens/differently abled 
8. Loans and advances 
9. Levy of charges without prior notice/excessive charges/foreclosure charges
10.Cheques/drafts/bills 
11.Non-observance of Fair Practices Code 
12. Exchange of coins, issuance/acceptance of small denomination notes and coins
13.Bank Guarantees/Letter of Credit and documentary credits 
14.Staff behaviour 
15.Facilities for customers visiting the branch/adherence to prescribed working hours 
by the branch, etc. 
16.Others
Further bank shall place a detailed statement of complaints in the web-site for 
information of the general public at the end of each financial year.
Internal Ombudsman:
In order to ensure the speedy redressal of complaints, the Bank has appointed the 
Internal Ombudsman, a retired senior officer not below the rank of General Manager, 
from other Bank, at the highest rank of the General Manger in our Bank. The rejected 
and partially resolved complaints from any level i.e. Branch/ Regional Office/ Circle 
Office/ Head Office are placed before the Internal Ombudsman of the Bank. Such 
rejected and partially resolved complaints are auto escalated to Internal Ombudsman 
within 20 days from receipt of complaint.
This helps the customer to get the grievances redressed faster without escalating to 
any other external authorities like The Banking Ombudsman, RBI, Consumer Courts, 
Government portal etc. This mechanism adopted by the Bank is working efficiently.
Board of Directors
 Shall drive the effective management of Grievance Redressal Policy.
 Provide senior management with clear guidance and direction.
Page 12 of 35
 Review the Grievance Redressal Policy annually and if necessary, revise
them in tune with extant regulatory guidelines.
 Matters relating to customer service should be deliberated by the Board 
to ensure that the instructions are implemented meaningfully. 
Commitment to hassle-free service to the customer at large and the Common Person 
in particular under the oversight of the Board should be the major responsibility of 
the Board.
Role of the Customer Service Committee
Customer Service Committee of the Board, illustratively, could address the following: 
 Formulation of a Comprehensive Deposit Policy
 Issues such as the treatment of death of a depositor for operations of his
account
 Product approval process with a view to suitability and appropriateness
 Annual survey of depositor satisfaction
 Tri-enniel audit of such services.
 Monitoring the implementation of awards under the Banking Ombudsman 
Scheme.
 The Committee should also play a more pro-active role with regard to 
complaints/ grievances resolved by Banking Ombudsmen of the various States.
 The Committee could also examine any other issues having a bearing on the 
quality of customer service rendered.
Further, with a view to enhance the effectiveness of the Customer Service 
Committee, banks should also:
a) Place all the awards given by the Banking Ombudsman before the Customer Service 
Committee to enable them to address issues of systemic deficiencies existing in 
banks, if any, brought out by the awards; and
b) Place all the awards remaining unimplemented for more than three months with 
the reasons therefore before the Customer Service Committee of the Board to enable 
the Customer Service Committee to report to the Board such delays in 
implementation without valid reasons and for initiating necessary remedial action.
 Standing Committee on Customer Service
The Committee on Procedures and Performance Audit of Public Services (CPPAPS) 
constituted by RBI examined the issues relating to the continuance or otherwise of 
the Ad hoc Committees and observed that there should be a dedicated focal point 
for customer service in banks, which should have sufficient powers to evaluate the 
functioning in various departments. The CPPAPS therefore recommended that the 
Ad hoc Committees should be converted into Standing Committees on Customer
Service.
The constitution and functions of the Standing Committee may be on the lines 
indicated below:
i) The Standing Committee may be chaired by the MD & CEO or the ED and include 
non- officials as its members to enable an independent feedback on the quality of 
customer service rendered by the bank.
ii) The Standing Committee may be entrusted not only with the task of ensuring 
Page 13 of 35
timely and effective compliance of the RBI instructions on customer service, but also 
that of receiving the necessary feedback to determine that the action taken by 
various departments of the bank is in tune with the spirit and intent of such
instructions.
iii) The Standing Committee may review the practice and procedures prevalent in the 
bank and take necessary corrective action, on an ongoing basis as the intent is 
translated into action only through procedures and practices.
iv) A brief report on the performance of the Standing Committee during its tenure 
indicating, inter alia, the areas reviewed, procedures/ practices identified and
simplified/ introduced may be submitted periodically to the Customer Service 
Committee of the Board.
3. GRIEVANCE ESCALATION SYSTEM:
The bank has adopted and implemented a centralized grievance redressal mechanism 
to ensure the expeditious and effective resolution of grievances. In accordance with 
the revised grievance redressal process, all complaints received by the bank are 
resolved at the Head Office level by subject experts in the respective products and 
services.
a) Complaints may be submitted via the grievance portal, electronic mail, postal 
correspondence, the Call Centre, mobile banking, internet banking etc. Upon 
successful registration, each complaint is assigned to the relevant operational 
unit at Head Office based on the classification of the complaint. 
b) Upon receipt of a complaint, the designated team at Head Office coordinates 
with the pertinent bank departments to formulate an appropriate response. 
The Customer Service department maintains centralized oversight of complaint 
closure. Prior to final closure, a review is conducted by a dedicated team within 
the Customer Service department to ensure adherence to established bank 
guidelines and applicable regulations (excluding digital transaction related 
complaints). 
c) The bank offers a complaint reopening process, allowing customers to reopen 
a closed complaint within seven days of the closure date. Reopened complaints 
are escalated directly to the Customer Service Vertical for analysis and 
resolution, subject to the concurrence of the General Manager or department 
head.
d) The bank undertakes root cause analysis (RCA) for complaint types exhibiting 
repetitive patterns or upward trends, and subsequently initiates remedial 
actions to rectify the underlying issues identified through the RCA process. 
3.1 ONLINE GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL SYSTEM: 
A. CRM-CPGRS (CANARA PUBLIC GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL SYSTEM)
To enhance customer service, and in accordance with directives from the Ministry 
of Finance, the Damodaran Committee, and the IBA, we have developed the Canara 
Public Grievance Redressal System (CPGRS). Accessible through our website, this 
online system enables customers to conveniently submit complaints, monitor their 
progress, and receive timely responses. Upon complaint submission, the system 
generates a unique reference number for customer tracking. Customers can use 
Page 14 of 35
this number to monitor the progress of their complaint, review the resolution 
provided, and reopen the complaint if they remain dissatisfied.
Upon successful registration, the system automatically allocates each complaint to 
the designated user wing/vertical/department based on the nature of the 
complaint as specified by the complainant or the individual registering the 
complaint on their behalf.
AT HEAD OFFICE LEVEL: USER WINGS / VERTICALS LEVEL:
Each user wing/vertical is responsible for the redressal of complaints pertaining to 
the products, services, and portfolios under its purview. These units are ensuring 
the timely and effective resolution of customer grievances resulting from 
identified deficiencies in their respective offerings. Each complaint is addressed 
by a subject matter specialist who provides a suitable resolution in full compliance 
with applicable bank guidelines and other regulations. The bank is committed to 
prioritizing customer grievance redressal to achieve the highest levels of customer 
satisfaction.
AT CIRCLE OFFICE LEVEL:
Circle Office user sections must analyze and provide input on each complaint related 
to their office. This analysis should be based on details, data, and documents 
gathered from relevant branches through the CRM CPGRS system or other bankapproved communication channels.
Circle Offices must acknowledge all complaints received directly, outside the CRM 
CPGRS system. These complaints must be promptly entered into the appropriate 
complaint management systems/channels.
To build stronger customer relationships, gain a deeper understanding of issues, and 
ensure satisfactory resolution, Circle Offices may directly contact customers as 
needed.
Circle user sections must provide complete input details and documentation for each 
complaint, in accordance with bank policy and guidelines.
AT REGIONAL OFFICE LEVEL:
Regional Offices can view all CRM-CPGRS complaints pertains to them and provide 
input and responses to queries from higher offices. They must also acknowledge all 
complaints received directly to their office, outside the CRM CPGRS system, and 
promptly enter these complaints into the complaint management package.
Regional Offices must regularly review and analyze branch complaint data, including 
the number, type, frequency, and reasons for any increases or decreases in complaint 
volume. They should then implement appropriate measures to address any identified 
issues.
AT BRANCH LEVEL:
Branches can view complaints registered against them and provide input and 
responses to queries from higher offices. They must also acknowledge all complaints 
Page 15 of 35
received directly, outside the CRM CPGRS system, and promptly enter these 
complaints into the appropriate complaint management systems.
Upon receiving a complaint, branches should contact the customer directly to fully 
understand the issue and ensure prompt and satisfactory resolution.
Complaints involving financial losses reported by customers must be given top 
priority.
All customers must have access to grievance redressal facilities, regardless of their 
ability to register complaints online.
When additional information or documents are required from a customer, they will 
be proactively notified through the grievance portal or a bank-approved 
communication channel.
B. ONLINE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ODR) System for Digital Payments: (Monitored by 
Reconciliation Vertical, Operations Wing)
In the Statement on Developmental and Regulatory Policies dated August 6, 2020, 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced introduction of Online Dispute Resolution 
(ODR) system for resolving customer disputes and grievances pertaining to failed 
transactions on digital payments. 
In compliance to above directions, Canara Bank offers an ODR system for faster and 
more efficient dispute resolution. The ODR system is designed to be transparent, rulebased, user-friendly, and unbiased, with minimal manual intervention.
Customers can directly register their disputes/grievances related to digital payments 
online through the ODR portal. Customers can also submit failed transaction related 
digital payment complaints directly to the branches for resolution. 
Customers can access the ODR portal through various channels, including the Canara 
Bank website (URL: https://odr.canarabank.com), CPGRS complaint portal, webbased or paper-based complaint forms, IVR, mobile application, call center, SMS, or 
through branches. Currently, the ODR portal handles disputes related to Debit Card, 
Credit Card, Prepaid Card, UPI, IMPS, AEPS, NACH, APBS, RTGS, and NEFT 
transactions.
Disputes raised in the ODR portal are automatically sent to the relevant reconciliation 
team within the bank for further processing. The respective sections under the 
Reconciliation Vertical handle the reconciliation process as per defined timelines 
(TAT). The status of the dispute resolution is then automatically updated in the ODR 
portal for customer tracking.
4. RBI - INTEGRATED OMBUDSMAN SCHEME, 2021
Following the submission of a general complaint to the bank, if the customer does not 
receive a satisfactory resolution, they may seek further redressal by contacting the 
Page 16 of 35
Banking Ombudsman appointed by the Reserve Bank of India under the Integrated 
Ombudsman Scheme, 2021.
We have displayed in our website and in all our Branches a notice explaining that we 
are covered by the Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 of Reserve Bank of India 
along with the scheme guidelines. The copy of the scheme is made available at all the 
branches. Salient features of the Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 are displayed 
in the branch premises/ notice boards and our corporate website 
www.canarabank.com. If customers face any difficulty, our Staff will explain the 
procedure in this regard.
The bank's process, as outlined in RBI-OS scheme, 2021, is to respond to customer 
complaints within 15 days of receipt. If more time is necessary for resolution, the 
bank will formally request an extension from the Ombudsman, including supporting 
documentation to justify the request.
1. If a complaint response cannot be provided within 15 days, the Circle's Nodal 
Executive must request a time extension from the Ombudsman's office within that 
initial 15-day period. The Branch/Controlling Office must also forward a copy of 
the extension request to the Principal Nodal Officer at Head Office and keep them 
updated on the complaint's status. This ensures the Principal Nodal Officer can 
effectively liaise with the Banking Ombudsman. Additionally, customers must be 
informed of their right to approach the Ombudsman if they are dissatisfied with 
the bank's response to their complaint.
2. The bank appoints a Principal Nodal Officer at a sufficiently senior level, no lower 
than General Manager. The Chief General Manager of the Customer Service 
Vertical, Operations Wing, currently holds this position.
 
3. The bank acknowledges the importance of customer satisfaction and strives to 
provide timely and effective resolutions to complaints. However, if a customer is 
not satisfied with our response, they have the right to approach the Banking 
Ombudsman.
We ensure customers are informed of this right by including it in the final response 
to any complaint redressal process. This notification also provides the complaint 
lodging portal of the Ombudsman: https://cms.rbi.org.in.
C. STRATEGIES FOR MEETING OBJECTIVES:
5. Standing Committee Meeting on Customer Service 
The Standing Committee on Customer Service is dedicated to continuous improvement 
by benchmarking service levels, regularly reviewing progress, enhancing timeliness 
Page 17 of 35
and quality, streamlining processes to leverage technological advancements, and 
recommending appropriate incentives to support these changes.
The Standing Committee on Customer Service, chaired by the Managing Director and 
CEO or an Executive Director, benefits from diverse expertise. Its members include 
two to three senior bank executives and two to three eminent non-executive members 
from the public, ensuring representation of customer perspectives and expertise in 
grievance handling.
The Standing Committee on Customer Service convenes on a quarterly basis, inviting 
customers and experts from selected circles to contribute their valuable insights, 
suggestions, and feedback. The bank subsequently analyzes this feedback and 
implements feasible recommendations in compliance with applicable regulations and 
guidelines.
The Committee is having the following functions:
1. To convene meeting every quarter.
2. Submits quarterly reports on meeting deliberations to the Customer Service 
Committee of the Board.
3. Evaluates customer service feedback received from various sources. This 
includes reviewing comments and feedback on customer service and the 
implementation of commitments outlined.
4. Ensures the bank's adherence to all regulatory instructions regarding customer 
service. To this end, the committee gathers necessary feedback from Regional 
Managers and Functional Heads.
5. Reviews unresolved complaints and grievances referred by responsible 
Functional Heads and provides input/advice.
6. Customer Service Committee of the Board 
The Customer Service Committee of the Board is tasked with formulating a 
comprehensive deposit policy that addresses issues such as the handling of depositor 
accounts in the event of death, the product approval process, and the conduct of 
annual depositor satisfaction surveys. The committee will also examine other matters 
impacting customer service quality and will review the functioning of the Standing 
Committee on Customer Service.
7. Nodal Officer and other designated officials to handle complaints and Grievances
7.1 At Head Office: Principal Nodal Officer
The bank has designated the Chief General Manager of the Customer Service 
Vertical, Operations Wing, located at Head Office, Bangalore, as the Principal 
Nodal Officer, responsible for monitoring the implementation of customer service 
and complaint handling processes across the bank.
Page 18 of 35
7.2 At Circle Office: 
At each Circle Office, the Nodal Officer within the Operations/Customer Service 
Section is the point of contact for customer complaints originating within that 
region. Customer Service Committees at these offices further support customer 
service by overseeing the implementation of relevant initiatives.
7.3 At Regional Office: 
Overseeing/Nodal Executive of Operations/Customer Service Section at Regional 
Offices is handling the complaints received directly from customers of that region. 
Customer Service Committees are in place in all the Regional Offices to look into 
implementation of customer service.
7.4 At Branches: At each branch, the Branch Head is designated as the nodal officer 
responsible for addressing customer grievances on-site. If a grievance cannot be 
resolved by branch staff, it is escalated to the Branch Head for further attention.
8. MANDATORY DISPLAY REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has made it mandatory to display the following information at Branches 
and at our corporate website www.canarabank.com for the benefit of our 
customers:
i. Details on how one can submit complaints and suggestions to the bank.
ii. Names, addresses, contact numbers, and email addresses of Nodal Officers 
who can help resolve Customer complaints.
iii. Link to the Reserve Bank of India's Ombudsman Scheme website 
(https://cms.rbi.org.in) where you can file complaints online.
iv. Details of the Bank's Code of Commitments to Customers/Fair Practice Code.
v. Prominently display at the branches, the names of the Officials who can be 
contacted for redressal of complaints, together with their direct Telephone 
No., complete address (not Post Box No.) and e-mail address, etc., for proper 
and timely contact by the customers and for enhancing effectiveness of the 
redressal machinery.
vi. In addition to branch officials, the names and contact details of the Nodal 
Officer appointed under the Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021, for the
circle to be displayed.
vii. Bank shall display on its website, the names and other details of Officials at 
their Head Office/ Circle Offices who can be contacted for redressal of 
complaints including the names of the Nodal Officers/ Principal Nodal Officer.
viii. Banks shall give wide publicity to the grievance redressal machinery through 
advertisements and also by placing them on its website.
ix. The details including name, complete address, telephone number, e-mail 
address, etc., of the Principal Nodal Officer shall be displayed in the portal 
of the bank preferably on the website so that the aggrieved customer can 
Page 19 of 35
approach the Bank with a sense of satisfaction that he/ she has been attended 
at a senior level. 
9. TIMELINE FOR RESOLUTION OF COMPLAINTS
The bank is committed to thoroughly reviewing and analyzing all received complaints. 
Established timeframes govern the handling and resolution of complaints at all levels 
of the organization, encompassing branches, regional offices, circle offices, and head 
office. Branch Managers are responsible for adhering to these timeframes in their 
efforts to resolve customer grievances.
Time frame adopted by Bank for Closure of various types of complaints are as 
follows: 
Timeline for Resolution of Complaints
Stipulated by 
Ministry of 
Finance
Adopted by 
Bank
General Complaints 30 Days 21 Days
Complaints forwarded by RBI/MOF MPs/VVIPs 21 Days 15 Days
Complaints forwarded by RBI(CMS Portal) 15 Days 15 Days
Complaints from PMs office 15 Days 7 Days
CPGRAMS Complaint(w.e.f. 23-08-2024)# 21 Days 21 Days
# CPGRAMS complaint redressal TAT has been reduced from 30 days to 21 days.
Complaints relating to Digital Financial Transactions will be dealt & redressed within 
the framework / timeline prescribed by Regulator/ Government 
Departments/Network Associates etc.
The bank will provide immediate acknowledgement of all received complaints. In 
instances where a complaint requires further examination, an interim response will 
be provided to the customer.
D. LIMIT STRUCTURE/ TRIGGER MECHANISM:
10. DISPUTE REDRESSAL MECHANISM: TECHNOLOGICAL/DIGITAL PRODUCTS: 
(Reconciliation by Reconciliation Vertical, Operations Wing & Monitored by DBS Wing)
Lodging of ATM related Complaints:
The following information should be displayed prominently at the ATM lobby 
/locations: -
i. ATM ID to be displayed clearly in the premises to make use of it while making a 
complaint/ suggestion.
ii. Information that ATM transaction complaints can be lodged at any branch.
Page 20 of 35
iii. Telephone numbers of help desk/ contact persons of the ATM owning bank to lodge 
complaint/ seek assistance.
iv. Such complaints can be lodged directly by customer in ODR portal from Canara 
Bank corporate website (URL: https://odr.canarabank.com) or through CPGRS 
web page.
iv. Uniform Template for lodging of complaints relating to ATM transactions given in 
Annexure I.
To improve the customer service through enhancement of efficiency in ATM 
operations, Bank may ensure the following action:
i. Message regarding non-availability of cash in ATMs should be displayed before the 
transaction is initiated by customer
ii. Make available forms for lodging the complaints with name and phone number of 
the officials with whom they have to be lodged
iii. Toll-free numbers for lodging complaints / reporting and blocking lost cards etc., 
to be displayed and attend the requests on priority
iv. Mobile numbers/ e-mail IDs of the customers may be registered to send alerts
In case of complaints pertaining to failed ATM transaction at other bank ATMs, the 
customer should lodge a complaint with the card issuing bank even if the transaction 
was carried out at another bank’s ATM.
ATM Transaction Security Enhancements
Variations in ATM transaction processes exist across banks due to differences in card 
readers and system configurations. Certain card readers pose security risks by 
allowing multiple transactions without requiring PIN validation for each transaction. 
This increases the potential for fraud and card misuse, particularly if a cardholder 
fails to retrieve their card after a transaction.
To significantly mitigate this risk, banks should implement a process requiring PIN 
validation for every ATM transaction, including balance inquiries. This measure 
ensures that each action is authorized by the cardholder.
As an additional security measure, banks should implement session timeouts for all 
ATM transaction screens. These timeouts should be configured to accommodate the 
time typically required for legitimate transactions, thereby minimizing the window of 
opportunity for unauthorized access.
Non-adherence to the above provisions shall attract penalty as prescribed under the 
Payment and Settlement Systems Act 2007 (Act 51 of 2007).
Page 21 of 35
Security Issues and Risk mitigation measures - Online alerts to the cardholder for 
usage of credit/ debit cards.
Previously, banks were required to send online alerts to cardholders for Card Not 
Present (CNP) transactions of ₹5,000 and above. Following instances of unauthorized 
ATM withdrawals reported to the RBI, banks were advised to implement online alerts 
for all card transactions, regardless of amount, across all channels. This measure has 
been implemented by the bank to enhance security and encourage greater card usage. 
The bank also provides convenient methods, such as SMS, for customers to block their 
cards and receive confirmation of the block.
Security Issues and Risk mitigation measures related to Card Not Present (CNP) 
transactions
To further enhance CNP transaction security, banks are mandated to implement 
additional authentication/validation factors based on information not visible on the 
card. This implementation is being phased in, starting with online transactions, 
followed by Interactive Voice Response (IVR), Mail Order/Telephone Order (MOTO), 
and Standing Instructions (SI). For MOTO and SI transactions, if a customer reports 
unauthorized transactions due to the lack of additional authentication after the 
stipulated implementation date, the issuing bank is obligated to provide a full and 
prompt reimbursement.
10.1 FAILED TRANSACTIONS:
Harmonization of Turn Around Time (TAT) and customer compensation for failed 
transactions using authorized Payment Systems:
Sl.
no.
Description of the incident
Framework for auto-reversal and compensation
Timeline for autoreversal
Compensation
payable
I II III IV
1 Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) including Micro-ATMs
A
Customer’s account 
debited but cash not 
dispensed.
Pro-active reversal (R) 
of failed transaction 
within a maximum of T 
+ 5 days.
₹ 100/- per day of delay 
beyond T + 5 days, to 
the credit of the 
account holder.
2 Card Transaction
A
Card to card transfer
Card account debited but 
the beneficiary card 
account not credited.
Transaction to be 
reversed (R) latest 
within T + 1 day, if 
credit is not effected 
to the beneficiary 
account.
₹ 100/- per day of 
delay beyond T + 1 
day.
Page 22 of 35
B
Point of Sale (PoS) (Card 
Present) including Cash at PoS
Account debited but 
confirmation not received at 
merchant location i.e., 
charge-slip not generated. Auto-reversal 
within T + 5 days.
₹ 100/- per day of 
delay beyond T + 5 
days.
C
Card Not Present (CNP) 
(e- commerce)
Account debited but 
confirmation not received at 
merchant’s system.
3 Immediate Payment System (IMPS)
A
Account debited but the 
beneficiary account is not 
credited.
If unable to credit to 
beneficiary account, 
auto reversal (R) by 
the Beneficiary bank 
latest on T + 1 day.
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.
In case of IMPS Transactions, Bank reverses the charges whenever there is a real 
time failures irrespective of the failure at Beneficiary Bank's end or NPCI side , 
however transactions which have failed at beneficiary Bank's end beyond real-time 
due to various reasons like incorrect Beneficiary Bank account details, account 
status being not active etc., which are not in our vicinity, these failures are 
communicated to our Bank on T + 1 basis, such charges are not reversed 
considering the fact that Bank has delivered the services as a remitter Bank.
4 Unified Payments Interface (UPI)
a
Account debited but the 
beneficiary account is not 
credited (transfer of funds).
If unable to credit the 
beneficiary account, 
auto reversal (R) by 
the Beneficiary bank 
latest on T + 1 day.
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.
B
Account debited but 
transaction confirmation 
not received at merchant 
location (payment to 
merchant).
Auto-reversal 
within T + 5 days.
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 5 days.
5 Aadhar Enabled Payment System
A
Account debited but 
transaction confirmation not 
received at merchant location.
Acquirer to initiate 
“Credit Adjustment” 
within T + 5 days.
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 5 days(where 
“T” is the date of 
transaction).
B
Account debited but 
beneficiary account not 
credited.
6 Aadhaar Payment Bridge System (APBS)
Page 23 of 35
Delay in crediting 
beneficiary’s account.
Beneficiary bank to 
reverse the transaction 
within T + 1 day.
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.
7 National Automated Clearing House (NACH)
a
Delay in crediting 
beneficiary’s account or 
reversal of amount.
Beneficiary bank to 
reverse the uncredited 
transaction within T + 1 
day.
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.
b
Account debited despite 
revocation of debit 
mandate with the bank by 
the customer.
Customer’s bank will be 
responsible for such debit. 
Resolution to be 
completed within T + 1 
day.
8 Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) – Cards / Wallets
a
Off-Us transaction
The transaction will ride on UPI, card network, IMPS, etc., as the case may be. The 
TAT and compensation rule of respective system shall apply.
b
On-Us transaction
Beneficiary’s PPI not 
credited.
PPI debited but 
transaction confirmation 
not received at merchant 
location.
Reversal effected in 
Remitter’s account 
within T + 1 day
₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.
The resolution of all disputes pertaining to failed ATM transactions must be completed 
within 120 days of the transaction date. This resolution process is to be conducted 
exclusively by the issuing and acquiring banks through the National Payments 
Corporation of India (NPCI). Bilateral settlement agreements outside the established 
NPCI dispute resolution mechanism are not permissible.
Disputes concerning failed ATM transactions exceeding 120 days from the date of the 
transaction will be resolved between the issuing and acquiring banks through a 
bilateral agreement based on good faith.
The monthly limit of free transactions allowed to Savings Bank account holders at 
other banks' ATMs includes all transaction types, both financial and non-financial.
All disputes related to failed ATM transactions must be resolved by the issuing and 
acquiring banks through the designated ATM system provider's dispute resolution 
mechanism. Bilateral settlements outside this established process are not permitted. 
This measure aims to reduce disputes between issuing and acquiring banks regarding 
compensation.
Revised TAT for handling disputes in UPI Transactions
Page 24 of 35
In order to bring down the compliant resolution lifecycle in respect of UPI failed 
transactions, it has been decided by NPCI to revise the window for the customers to 
raise the chargeback to 45 days uniformly for all categories. Existing and revised 
TAT as mention below will be operational w.e.f 25.07.2024.
10.2 UPI URCS- Revised Disputes TAT: Revised TAT for handling disputes in UPI
transactions
Dispute 
type EXISTING TAT 
REVISED TAT 
w.e.f
25.07.2024
TAT for 
Acceptance/
Rejection
Next Level 
Dispute type
Chargeback
90 days from 
transaction date for 
P2M transaction 45 days from 
transaction 
date uniformly
15 days for P2M 
transaction
Pre-arbitration 60 days from 
transaction date for 
P2P transaction
35 days for P2P 
transaction
PreArbitration
15 days from 
representment/
rejection on of charge 
back
No change
7 days for P2M 
transaction Arbitration 5 days for P2P 
transaction
Arbitration 15 days from 
representment of PreArbitration
No change 60 days for 
panel verdict
NA
Fraud 
Charge 
back
60 days from 
transaction date for 
P2M transaction 45 days from 
transaction
date uniformly
35 days for P2M 
transaction
NA 60 days from 
transaction date for 
P2P transaction
35 days for P2P 
transaction
Wrong 
credit 
Chargeback
60 days from 
transaction date for 
P2P transaction
45 days from 
transaction
date 
35 days for P2P 
transaction NA
10.3 Exception Handling:
Exception transactions are defined as those that cannot be reconciled or reported as 
erroneous by cardholders. In the event of settlement discrepancies raised by other 
member banks, members are expected to collaborate towards a resolution, adhering 
to the settlement procedures documented by the Reconciliation Vertical within the 
Operations Wing at Head Office.
10.4 Chargebacks:
The timeframe for initiating a chargeback is within 60 days of the transaction date. 
Upon initiation, the acquiring bank is required to accept or represent the chargeback 
within five days. A good-faith chargeback may be initiated between 61 and 120 days 
of the transaction date, with the acquiring bank required to respond within 15 days.
Page 25 of 35
10.5 ATM Credit/ Debit Transaction Adjustments: 
As per NPCI dispute resolution policy guidelines, for ATM transaction routed through 
NFS network, all credit adjustments are to be raised within T+5 days (without penalty, 
and upto T+60 days with penalty). All Debit adjustments are to be raised within T+10 
days.
i. CREDIT ADJUSTMENTS:
Credit Adjustments are raised by Acquirer members where its ATM is unable to 
dispense the requested amount (fully /partially), but have received the transaction 
amount through settlement, within 60 calendar days from the next day of transaction. 
This would help Issuer members in giving credit to their customers without raising a
chargeback.
All credit adjustments may be raised within T+5 days without penalty, but there is a 
TAT of 60 days to raise along with penalty beyond T+5 days. Penalty of Rs. Rs.100/-
per day is payable for credit adjustments made beyond T+5 days.
ii. DEBIT ADJUSTMENTS:
Debit Adjustments are raised by Acquirer members when cash is dispensed from its 
ATM but the transaction has not been settled, within 10 calendar days from the next 
day of the transaction.
11.Net Banking: (Monitored by DBS Wing, HO)
The concerned branch will address grievances related to the following Net Banking 
services:
 User creation
 Password resets (when online self-service is unavailable)
 Account unlocks (when online self-service is unavailable)
 Non-online login and transaction password resets
 Updating personal details (address, mobile number, and email ID)
 Net Banking activation
Customers can now independently manage several Net Banking functions online, 
including user creation, password creation (login and transaction), password 
resets/unlocks, and OTP regeneration.
Page 26 of 35
Other Net Banking grievances that cannot be resolved at the branch level, such as 
non-receipt of password/PIN mailers, should be escalated to the Internet and Mobile 
Banking Section of the Digital Banking Service Vertical at Head Office.
For technology-related issues, the Internet and Mobile Banking Section will 
collaborate with the relevant group within the Technology Operations Vertical, 
Information Technology Wing, at Head Office to resolve the issue and communicate 
the resolution to the customer.
Grievances specifically related to the Can digital software solution used for Net 
Banking and issues with OTP delivery (non-receipt or delays) will be handled by the 
Payment Systems and Alternate Delivery Channels Group within the Technology 
Operations Wing at Head Office, under the oversight of the Technology Operations 
Vertical, Information Technology Wing.
12. Mobile Banking: (Monitored by DBS Wing, HO)
The concerned branch will address grievances related to:
 Mobile Banking registration
 Mobile Banking activation following an MPIN change by the customer
Grievances that cannot be resolved at the branch level will be escalated to the 
Internet and Mobile Banking Section within the Digital Banking Service Vertical at
Head Office.
For technology-related issues, the Internet and Mobile Banking Section will 
collaborate with the Mobile Banking Group of the Technology Operations Vertical to 
resolve the issue and communicate the resolution to the customer.
13. Interaction with Customers: (Monitored by Customer Service Vertical, Operations 
Wing, HO)
Direct engagement with customers enables bank personnel to gain a deeper 
understanding of their expectations, requirements, and grievances. Regularly 
scheduled customer meetings convey the bank's commitment to customer satisfaction 
and provide a valuable forum for gathering feedback and suggestions for service 
enhancement. Many complaints stem from a lack of customer awareness regarding 
bank services; these interactions serve to improve customer comprehension of 
available offerings. Customer feedback is considered a key input in the ongoing 
process of refining our products and services to better align with customer 
requirements.
Page 27 of 35
14. Periodical training & sensitizing the operating staff on handling complaints
Bank staff receive comprehensive training on complaint handling at our Apex Centre 
of Excellence in Manipal, Centre of Excellence in Gurugram, and all Learning & 
Development Centres. These training sessions emphasize the importance of 
effective complaint resolution and equip staff with the necessary skills to address 
customer concerns.
The bank's Nodal Officer ensures the smooth and efficient operation of the internal 
complaint/grievance handling mechanism at all levels. This officer also provides 
feedback to the Human Resources Wing regarding staff training needs at various 
levels.
The established grievance redressal process also covers complaints originating from 
rural areas and those related to financial assistance under the Priority Sector and 
government poverty alleviation programs. The existing Board-approved grievance 
policy, published on our website, applies to all complaints, including those from 
rural areas.
Customer Contact Channels:
Toll-Free Number (Call Canara): 1800 1030 (Backup: 1800 425 0018). This toll-free 
number, part of our "One Bank, One Number" initiative, is available to all customers, 
including those in rural areas, and supports seventeen languages: Kannada, Tamil, 
Telugu, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Koshi, 
Kashmiri, Konkani, Tulu, Urdu, Hindi, and English.
NRI Helpline: +91 80-22064232 / +91 80-68212121 (Non-toll-free for calls from 
outside India).
Credit Card Mis-selling Complaints: 080-22064222 (Dedicated landline).
15. Home Loans-Levy of fore-closure charges/ pre-payment penalty: (Monitored by 
Retail Asset Wing)
a. Eliminating foreclosure charges/prepayment penalties on floating rate home loans 
promotes fairness between existing and new borrowers and encourages 
competition among banks, leading to more competitive pricing. While many banks 
have already voluntarily abolished these penalties, this measure ensures 
uniformity across the banking system. Therefore, the bank will not charge 
foreclosure charges/prepayment penalties on floating rate home loans sanctioned 
to individuals.
b. Current guidelines define a fixed-rate loan as one with a fixed rate for a specific 
period, subject to a reset clause. Consequently, dual-rate/special-rate home 
Page 28 of 35
loans offered by the bank cannot be classified as fixed-rate loans. For these loans, 
the lower interest rate provisions will apply from the date the loan's interest rate 
becomes floating.
c. Bank shall not charge foreclosure charges/pre-payment penalties on all floating 
term loans (Housing Loan) sanctioned to individual borrowers.
16. Uniformity in Intersol Charges:
The implementation of the Core Banking Solution (CBS) has enabled the bank to 
provide consistent customer service across all delivery points. Consequently, the bank 
has eliminated the distinction between "home" and "non-home" branches for the 
purpose of levying service charges. Any service offered free of charge at a "home" 
branch is also available without charge at "non-home" branches. Inter-branch service 
charges for comparable transactions are applied uniformly across all branches. 
(Reference: RBI Master Circular on Customer Service 2015 dated 01.07.2015, Page 33, 
Point 6.6).
17. Charges for sending SMS alerts:
In order to ensure reasonable and equitable charges for SMS alerts, the bank utilizes 
available technology and collaborates with telecom service providers to implement 
an actual-usage-based charging model for customers. These charges are waived for 
Jan Dhan (PMJDY) accounts, Canara Basic Saving Bank deposit accounts, other 
financial inclusion savings bank accounts, and any other categories specifically 
exempted by the bank.
18. Grievance Redressal on complaints against outsourced agencies/employees:
The bank outsources select customer-facing functions to external vendors, including 
recovery agents, business correspondents, call center personnel, operators at Aadhaar 
Seva Kendras, and direct selling agents. These vendors are subject to oversight by the 
bank's relevant departments. The bank is committed to addressing grievances related 
to these outsourced vendors/personnel within defined turnaround times (TAT) and 
will report the number, nature, and other pertinent details of received complaints to 
the appropriate authorities.
When a complaint is received through a channel other than complaint portal, such as 
via call center, letter, email, or telephone, it must be promptly registered within the 
relevant grievance redressal system/portal. The complainant should then be provided 
with a complaint ID/reference number to facilitate online status tracking.
18.1 Recovery Agents (Monitored by RL&FP Wing)
a. Borrowers who have a grievance or complaint regarding a Recovery 
Agent/Agency should initially bring the matter to the attention of the Branch 
Page 29 of 35
in-charge. If the grievance is not resolved to the borrower's satisfaction, they 
may submit a formal written complaint to the Grievance Redressal Cell at the 
appropriate Circle Office (i.e., the Circle Office within whose jurisdiction the 
branch or bank office is located) within 21 days of the date on which the issue 
arose.
b. Upon receipt of a written complaint, the in-charge of the Grievance Redressal 
Cell at the Circle Office shall initiate appropriate action for redressal as 
promptly as possible, and in all cases within 21 days of receipt, unless the 
nature of the complaint necessitates the verification of substantial data. 
Should a resolution not be reached within this timeframe, an interim 
communication will be provided to the customer.
c. The head of the Grievance Redressal Cells of the Bank for Recovery Agents are:
Grievances Received at In-charge/Head of the Cell To be handled by
Circle Office DGM/GM of the Circle R & L Section
d. The decision taken by the in-charge of the Grievance Redressal Cell/s shall be 
final and shall be informed to the complainant in writing or any other Bank 
approved mode of communications. 
18.2 Call Center Service (Monitored by Customer Service Vertical, Operations Wing)
Any complaint regarding a call center vendor or agent (i.e., an outsourced agency), 
received directly from a customer through any channel, must be forwarded by the 
concerned branch/section/official to the Customer Service Vertical, Operations Wing, 
at Head Office for follow-up and resolution. The Customer Service Vertical will then 
provide a response regarding the resolution or action taken, either directly to the 
complainant or through the appropriate channel, within 21 working days of receiving 
the complaint.
18.3 Business Correspondents (Monitored by Lead Bank & Financial Inclusion Wing)
i. Upon receiving a report of suspicious activity or a fraudulent complaint, the 
Terminal ID associated with the BC will be immediately blocked by the BC 
Section at Head Office (HO).
ii. The Business Correspondent Section within the Financial Inclusion Wing at HO 
will instruct Regional Office Divisional Managers and higher-ranking officials to 
conduct an investigation and submit a report with their recommendations.
iii. Based on the findings and recommendations from the Regional Office, the BC 
Section will instruct the Corporate BC to replace the BC Agent or, if 
appropriate, release the blocked Terminal ID.
iv. The Regional Office will investigate the complaint from a fraud perspective to 
determine if filing a police complaint against the BC Agent is warranted.
v. Before filing a police complaint, the Regional Office must consult with the 
Circle Office Legal Section for guidance.
Page 30 of 35
vi. When submitting the investigation report and recommendations to Circle 
Office/Head Office, the Regional Office must confirm that the complaint has 
been analyzed for potential fraud.
18.4 Operators at Aadhar Seva Kendras (Monitored by Lead Bank & Financial 
Inclusion Wing)
If customers have a problem with your new Aadhaar enrollment or biometric 
update, you can file a complaint directly with UIDAI by visiting their portal 
(https://uidai.gov.in/en/contact-support/grievance-redressal.html) or calling 
their toll-free number 1947. UIDAI's regional offices handle complaints within 
their jurisdiction, and they may consult with the registrar or enrollment agency 
in some cases.
For complaints about overcharging or other issues with operators at Aadhaar Seva 
Kendras, the Branch Manager is the first person to talk to. Currently, complaints 
about overcharging are sent to the Aadhaar Seva Kendra Section of the Financial 
Inclusion Wing. Head Office gathers information from Circle Offices, Regional 
Offices, vendors, and the branch involved. If the complaint is valid, Head Office 
instructs the vendor or operator to return the fees charged.
18.5 Formation of Women SHG & Facilitation in crediting of SHG/JLG. 
(Monitored by Priority Credit Wing)
Borrowers who have grievances or complaints against any agency involved in the 
formation of Women Self-Help Groups (WSHGs) and facilitating credit to these groups 
under Core Agriculture programs can follow these steps:
1. May bring the same to the notice of the in-charge of the Branch at the first 
instance. 
2. If the grievance/ complaint is not redressed to the satisfaction of the Borrower, 
he can file a written complaint to the Grievance Redressal Cells at Circle Office 
within whose jurisdiction the Branch or the Office of the Bank is located not 
later than 21 days from the date of cause of action.
3. On receipt of the written complaint, the in-charge of the Grievance Redressal 
Cell/s shall, as expeditiously as possible, and in any case not later than 21 days 
from the date of receipt of the complaint, initiate appropriate steps for 
redressal of the complaint unless the nature of complaint is such that it 
requires verification of voluminous facts and figures. 
4. The head of the Grievance Redressal Cells of the Bank at the Circle for is as 
follows:
Grievances Received at In-charge/Head of the Cell To be handled by
Circle Office Overseeing Executive AF & PS Section
Page 31 of 35
5. Grievance Redressal Cell at Circle should verify the compliance as per HO Cir 
IC/9/2023 dated 05/01/2023 and may ask the Regional Office concerned to 
investigate the matter and submit the report, if required.
6. The decision taken by the in-charge of the Grievance Redressal Cell/s shall be 
final and shall be informed to the customer in writing.
18.6 Direct Selling Agents (DSA - Monitored by Retail Assets Wing)
a) DSAs must have a well-defined and effective complaint resolution policy to 
address complaints received either from the bank or directly from customers 
regarding services provided by the vendor, as outlined in the agreement or 
otherwise. This policy should include provisions for acknowledging all 
complaints, determining appropriate compensation for various service 
failures or omissions, establishing clear escalation procedures, maintaining a 
comprehensive register of complaints with their status, and outlining the 
specific steps taken to resolve each complaint.
b) DSAs must strive to resolve all customer complaints within four business days 
of receiving them, whether the complaints are forwarded by the bank or 
received directly from the customer. 
c) In the absence of a defined complaint resolution policy by the vendor, or if 
complaints are not adequately addressed, the bank's compensation policy (as 
amended from time to time) shall apply to the vendor. In such cases, the DSA 
shall be responsible for indemnifying and compensating the bank for any 
amount paid to the customer as per the bank's compensation policy, without 
any limitations.
The Branch Head/Retail Assets Hub Head is responsible for ensuring that all 
complaints are resolved within seven (7) business days. Their decision on all 
disputes or clarifications regarding fees, terms of empanelment, and other 
related matters shall be final and binding on the DSAs. In cases of unsatisfactory 
performance or misconduct by DSAs, the Bank reserves the right to terminate the 
agreement with immediate effect, without any recourse available to the DSA.
19. Resolution of Grievances under NPS and APY (Government Services Section, 
Resources Wing)
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has appointed an 
Ombudsman to receive, consider, and facilitate the resolution of complaints or 
grievances under the ambit of PFRDA (Redressal of Subscriber Grievance) 
Regulations, 2015 and amendments thereto hereinafter referred to as ‘Grievance
Redressal Regulations’ (hosted on the website of Authority i.e. www.pfrda.org.in)
In terms of the aforesaid Grievance Redressal Regulation, an appeal to the 
Ombudsman may be filed by the complainant under the following circumstances:
Page 32 of 35
(a) whose grievance has not been resolved within 21 days from the escalation of 
the grievance with the NPS Trust; or 
(b) where a complaint has been made directly against the NPS Trust and is 
unresolved within 21 days; or 
(c) In relation to a complaint against any other pension scheme regulated by 
PFRDA, whose grievance remains unresolved for a period of 30 days from the 
filing of complaint against such pension scheme
In terms of PFRDA Regulation 31 of the Grievance Redressal Regulations, all 
Bank Branches under the NPS and any other pension scheme regulated by the 
PFRDA shall display the name, address, and contact details of the Grievance 
Redressal Officer and the Ombudsman in their office premises
The name, address and contact details of the Ombudsman are as follows: 
The Office of Ombudsman 
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority 
Tower E, 5th Floor, E-500, 
World Trade Center Nauroji Nagar, 
New Delhi -110029 
Phone No.: 011-4071 7900 
Email Id: ombudsman@pfrda.org.in
Branches/Offices are required to take note of the above for strict compliance
a. Guidelines on operational activities to be followed by POP(Banks) while 
performing activities of NPS
The Name, E-mail id and telephone number/s of the designated Grievance 
Redressal Officer (GRO) of the POP(Bank)/POP-SPs(Branch) shall be made public 
through display on website. The GRO shall ensure that the grievances of 
subscribers are redressed effectively and expeditiously.
b. Customer Service Aspects of Senior Citizen /Pensioners (Damodaran 
Committee Recommendations on Customer Service - 2011):
 Bank is committed for providing prioritized services to senior citizen and 
especially abled customers at our branches through effective crowd 
management.
 Periodical SMS alerts to send for account balances and important document due 
dates.
 Customers are to be automatically upgraded to senior citizen status based on 
their date of birth.
 The submission of annual life certificates by pensioners should be facilitated 
at any branch of the Bank, eliminating the requirement to visit their designated 
Page 33 of 35
home branch. All such certificates should be centrally recorded within a unified 
database.
 Pensioner data, including monthly certificates, to be made accessible within a 
secure online platform for immediate retrieval and use.
 Settlement of dues to nominees or legal heirs must be conducted smoothly and 
efficiently, adhering to RBI guidelines and Board-approved policies.
 In line with the guidelines from RBI and Board approved policies, there must 
be hassle-free settlement of amount dues to the nominee / legal heir, as and 
when required. 
 To ensure consistency, a uniform age threshold for longevity considerations 
should be implemented across all banks in the calculation of pensioner loans
 Banks should create awareness about Reverse Mortgage Scheme among 
pensioners/ senior citizens. 
 Upon the demise of a pensioner, existing 'either or survivor' pension accounts 
should automatically convert to single accounts in the survivor's name, with 
family pension seamlessly credited to the new account. This principle should 
also apply to all joint accounts with 'either or survivor' clauses.
 Banks must optimize their Centralised Pension Processing Centers to ensure 
timely pension disbursal, prompt family pension commencement, and accurate 
pension calculations.
 Banks should provide doorstep pension disbursement services to sick and 
disabled pensioners, potentially utilizing doorstep Banking and / or Business 
Correspondents for this purpose.
20. Strengthening of Grievance Redressal Mechanism in Banks: 
In its Statement on Developmental and Regulatory Policies issued on January 27, 2021, 
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) introduced a comprehensive framework to address 
customer grievances. This framework includes enhanced disclosure requirements for 
banks regarding customer complaints, a mechanism to recover the cost of redressal 
from banks with an excessive number of maintainable complaints (compared to their 
peers) received by the Office of the Banking Ombudsman (OBO), and a commitment 
to conduct thorough reviews of bank grievance redress mechanisms, with the 
possibility of supervisory action against banks that fail to improve these mechanisms 
within a specified timeframe.
21. Handling of Complaints related to vigilance, bribery & corruption: (handled by 
Vigilance Wing):
All complaints received through any channel (CPGRS, email, letter) that involve 
potential vigilance concerns, such as bribery, corruption, or employee fraud, will be 
handled at Vigilance Wing. In accordance with CVC guidelines, anonymous complaints 
will not be entertained.
Page 34 of 35
If complainant details and contact information are available, the Vigilance Wing will 
analyze the case and refer it to the Circle Vigilance Officer for preliminary 
investigation. The Chief Vigilance Officer will then decide on further investigation, 
referral to the Staff Accountability Screening Committee (SASC) for analysis, or a 
suitable response to the complainant. Corrective actions will be initiated as 
necessary. An interim reply will be provided to the customer if a resolution is delayed.
If the CVO orders further detailed investigation, the Head Office Inspection Wing will 
conduct the investigation. The aforementioned procedure will then be followed. If staff 
lapses are identified, an IAC will be presented to the CVO for determination of the 
vigilance angle. If no staff lapses are found, the matter will be closed with the CVO's 
approval. 
22. Complaints related to Credit Information Companies (CIC): (Monitored by 
Recovery, Legal and Fraud Prevention Wing)
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has mandated that Credit Information Companies 
(CICs) and Credit Institutions (CIs) implement a compensation framework to address 
delays in updating or rectifying credit information.
Compensation for Delayed Resolution:
If a credit information dispute isn't resolved within 30 calendar days of the initial 
complaint, the responsible entity (Credit Institution - CI or Credit Information 
Company - CIC) must pay the complainant ₹100 per day of the delay. Penalty needs 
to be paid by the Bank/CIC in case there is a delay.
Timeline for Resolution:
CI would get twenty-one (21) days and CICs would effectively get the remainder of 
nine (9) days for complete resolution of the complaint. 
CI's Responsibility:
A CI must pay compensation if it fails to send updated credit information to the CICs 
within 21 calendar days of being informed by the complainant or a CIC.
E. COMPLIANCE/ MONITORING OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICIES
Compliance with this policy at branches will be assessed during Routine Bank 
Inspections (RBIAs), Concurrent Audits, and other inspections. Any deviations found 
will be reported to the relevant Circle Offices, the Customer Service Vertical, the 
Operations Wing, the Head Office, and the Audit Committee of the Board.
The Overseeing Executive of Operations/Customer Service in each Circle will be 
responsible for ensuring that all Regional Offices within their jurisdiction adhere to 
the policy guidelines.
**************
Page 35 of 35
Annexure-I
ENCLOSURE TO 10.1.iv Uniform Template
To: The Branch Manager
_______________________________________________ (Name of the Bank)
_______________________________________________ (Name of the Branch) *
_______________________________________________ (Name of the City)
1 Customer Information:
Name of the Customer :
Account No. :
Debit Card/ ATM Card No :
2 ATM Information:
ATM ID/ Location, if ID is not available:
Name of the ATM Bank 
3 Nature of the Complaints
a) Complaint relating to Cash Withdrawal:
Amount requested for withdrawal : (Rs. )
Amount actually disbursed at ATM : (Rs. )
Amount to the account debited : (Rs. )
Date of transaction : (Rs. )
Time of transaction : (Rs. )
c) Other complaint : 
4
Date: Signature of the Card Holder 
 Contact Tel/ Mobile No.
*(Name of the Bank Branch where cardholder account is maintained which is linked 
to ATM card)
