Page 1 of 65
Deposit Policy
(Domestic Branches)
Version No.16.0
2025-26
Resources Wing
HEAD OFFICE
112, J C ROAD
BENGALURU -560002
Page 2 of 65
INDEX
Sl 
No. Contents Page number
1. KYC GUIDELINES OF RBI 3
2. SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNT 3
3. CURRENT ACCOUNT 10
4. TERM DEPOSIT ACCOUNT 15
5. BULK DEPOSITS 19
6. NRE TERM DEPOSITS 23
7. DEPOSITS HELD IN FCNR(B) ACCOUNT 25
8. RESIDENT FOREIGN CURRENCY ACCOUNTS (RFC) 31
9. SPECIAL NON-RESIDENT RUPEE (SNRR) ACCOUNT 35
10. EXCHANGE EARNER'S FOREIGN CURRENCY ACCOUNT – EEFC 
ACCOUNT 36
11. DIAMOND DOLLAR ACCOUNT SCHEME – DDA ACCOUNT 37
12. FCY ACCOUNT BY A UNIT IN A SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONE (SEZ) 38
13. GENERAL GUIDELINES 38
14. INOPERATIVE ACCOUNTS 40
15. PAYMENT OF ADDITIONAL INTEREST ON DOMESTIC DEPOSIT 45
16. NOMINATION 48
17. SPECIAL TYPE OF ACCOUNTS 48
18. SETTLEMENT OF DUES IN DECEASED DEPOSITOR’S ACCOUNTS 51
19. SAFE DEPOSIT LOCKERS 52
20. REDRESSAL OF COMPLAINTS 52
21. BANKS’ CODE OF CONDUCT WITH RESPECT TO DEPOSITORS 53
22. DEPOSITOR’S RIGHTS 55
23.
ANNEXURE-A: CUSTOMER IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURE –
FEATURES TO BE VERIFIED AND DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE 
OBTAINED FROM CUSTOMERS
57
Page 3 of 65
POLICY GUIDELINES ON DEPOSITS - 2025-26
1. KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER (KYC) GUIDELINES OF RBI
Know Your Customer [KYC] is the platform on which Banking system operates to avoid 
the pitfalls of operational, legal and reputational risks and consequential losses by 
scrupulously adhering to the various procedures laid down for opening and conduct of 
account.
The Bank shall adopt appropriate Know Your Customer Policies, procedures and internal 
controls reasonably designed to:
1.1 Determine and document the true identity and address of the customers who 
establish relationships, open accounts or conduct significant business transactions 
and obtain basic background information on customers.
1.2 Obtain and document any additional customer information, commensurate with 
assessment of the money laundering risks posed by customers’ expected use of 
Bank's products and services.
1.3 Avoid doing business with any individual or entity whose identity cannot be 
determined or who refuses to provide information or who have provided 
information that contains significant inconsistencies which cannot be resolved 
after due investigation.
The regulatory guidelines require Bank to categorize customers based on risk perception 
and prepare profiles of customers for the purpose of transaction monitoring. If the 
decision to open an account of a prospective depositor requires clearance at a higher 
level, reasons for any delay in opening of the account will be informed and the final 
decision will be conveyed at the earliest.
2. TYPES OF DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
The Deposit Products offered by the Bank are broadly categorized in the following 
types:
1. Savings Bank Account.
2. Current Account.
3. Term Deposits.
3. ACCOUNT OPENING AND OPERATION OF DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
3.1 Savings Bank Account:
Savings Bank account, as the very name suggests, is intended for savings for the 
future. There are no restrictions on the number and amount of deposit that can be 
made on any day. Minimum amount of cash withdrawal at Branch is Rs.50/- and 
cash deposit is Rs.10/-. Balance in the account earns interest at rates decided by 
Page 4 of 65
the Bank, from time to time. The facility of withdrawal by cheque is also allowed 
subject to certain restrictions. 
Branches shall not open a Savings Bank deposit account in the name of Government 
departments / bodies depending upon budgetary allocations for performance of their 
functions / Municipal Corporations or Municipal Committees / Panchayat Samitis / 
State Housing Boards / Water and Sewerage / Drainage Boards / State Text Book 
Publishing Corporations / Societies / Metropolitan Development Authority / State / 
District Level Housing Co-operative Societies, etc. or any Political Party or any 
trading/business or professional concern, whether such concern is a Proprietary or a 
Partnership firm or a Company or an Association and Entities. 
Branches shall open a Savings Bank deposit account only in the name of Individuals, 
Karta of HUF and Organizations/Agencies listed hereunder:
(1) Primary Co-operative Credit Society which is being financed by the Bank.
(2) Khadi and Village Industries Boards.
(3) Agriculture Produce Market Committees.
(4) Societies registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or any other 
corresponding law in force in a State or a Union Territory except societies 
registered under the State Co-operative Societies Acts and specific state 
enactment creating Land Mortgage Banks.
(5) Companies licensed by the Central Government under Section 8 of Companies 
Act, 2013 or Section 25 of Companies Act, 1956 or under the corresponding 
provision in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and permitted not to add to their 
names the word ‘Limited’ or the words ‘Private Limited’.
(6) Institutions other than those mentioned in Section 28(h) of RBI Master 
Direction on Interest Rate of Deposit, 2016 (Updated as on 16.09.2022) (as 
mentioned in above Para 3.1) ineligible to open Savings Bank accounts and 
whose entire income is exempt from payment of Income-tax under the IncomeTax Act, 1961.
(7) Government departments / bodies / agencies in respect of grants / subsidies 
released for implementation of various programs / Schemes sponsored by 
Central Government / State Governments subject to production of an 
authorization from the respective Central / State Government departments to 
open savings bank account.
(8) Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas (DWCRA).
(9) Self-help Groups (SHGs), registered or unregistered, which are engaged in 
promoting savings habits among their members.
(10) Farmers' Clubs - Vikas Volunteer Vahini - VVV.
For the purposes of the above clause, ‘Political Party’ means an Association or Body 
of individual citizens of India, which is, or is deemed to be registered with the Election 
Commission of India as a Political Party under the Election Symbols (Reservation and 
Allotment) Order, 1968 as in force for the time being.
As required by Law, while opening the account, Bank will satisfy itself about the 
identity, including verification of address of a person/s seeking to open an account, 
satisfying about his occupation and source of income, to assist in protecting the 
Page 5 of 65
prospective customers, members of the public and the Bank against fraud and other 
misuse of the Banking system duly observing the Know Your Customer [KYC] guidelines 
of RBI.
Bank will not open savings deposit account in the name of entities belonging to the 
category of bodies/institutions/ organizations prohibited to open Savings Bank 
Deposit.
3.1.1 Introduction: Introduction from an existing customer is not mandatory for opening 
accounts, including those of legal entities. After passing of Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act (PML Act) and introduction of document based verification of 
identity/address of the proposed account holders, the accounts opened with proper 
documents are considered as acting in good faith and without negligence by the 
banks. An account will be considered fully KYC compliant after obtention of KYC 
documents like recent photographs, proof of identity and proof of address, 
verification of these documents & updation of the details in the system (For details 
refer Annexure-A).
3.1.2 The Bank is required to obtain 2 recent photographs of the person/s opening the 
account. In case of illiterate persons, 3 photographs have to be obtained.
3.1.3 The Officially Valid Documents are as under:
1) Passport.
2) Driving License.
3) Proof of possession of Aadhaar number*.
4) Voter Identity Card issued by Election Commission of India.
5) Job card issued by NREGA duly signed by an officer of the State Government.
6) Letter issued by the National Population Register containing details of name 
and address.
[*Where the client submits his proof of possession of Aadhaar number as an Officially 
Valid Document, he may submit it in such form as issued by the Unique Identification 
Authority of India (UIDAI].
Only the documents mentioned above would be accepted for opening accounts of 
individuals. Branches should not accept any other document for this purpose. (For 
details refer Annexure-A).
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) means identifying and verifying the customer and the 
beneficial owner using reliable and independent sources of identification.
For undertaking Customer Due Diligence (CDD), Bank shall obtain the following from 
an individual while establishing an account-based relationship or while dealing with 
the individual who is a beneficial owner, authorized signatory or the power of 
attorney holder related to any legal entity:
(A)The Aadhaar number where, 
(i) he is desirous of receiving any benefit or subsidy under any scheme notified 
under section 7 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other 
subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016); or 
(ii) he decides to submit his Aadhaar number voluntarily to a bank; or 
(B) The proof of possession of Aadhaar number where offline verification can be 
carried out; or 
Page 6 of 65
(C) The proof of possession of Aadhaar number where offline verification cannot be 
carried out or any OVD or the equivalent e-document thereof containing the details 
of his identity and address; or
(D)the KYC Identifier with an explicit consent to download records from CKYCR; and
(E) The Permanent Account Number or the equivalent e-document thereof or Form 
No. 60 as defined in Income-tax Rules, 1962; and 
(F) Such other documents including in respect of the nature of business and financial 
status of the customer, or the equivalent e-documents thereof as may be required 
by the bank.
Provided that where the customer has submitted, 
i) Aadhaar number under clause (A) above to a bank, such bank shall carry out 
authentication of the customer’s Aadhaar number using e-KYC authentication 
facility provided by the Unique Identification Authority of India.
Further, in such a case, if customer wants to provide a current address, different 
from the address as per the identity information available in the Central Identities 
Data Repository, he may give a self-declaration to that effect to the Bank. 
ii) Proof of possession of Aadhaar under clause (B) above where offline verification 
can be carried out, the bank shall carry out offline verification. 
iii) An equivalent e-document of any OVD, the bank shall verify the digital signature 
as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) and any 
rules issues thereunder and take a live photo. 
iv) Any OVD or proof of possession of Aadhaar number under clause (C) above where 
offline verification cannot be carried out, the bank shall carry out verification 
through digital KYC. 
v) KYC Identifier under clause (D) above, the Bank shall retrieve the KYC records 
online from the CKYCR.
Provided that for a period not beyond such date as may be notified by the 
Government for a class of Regulated entities, instead of carrying out digital KYC, 
the Regulated entity pertaining to such class may obtain a certified copy of the 
proof of possession of Aadhaar number or the OVD and a recent photograph where 
an equivalent e-document is not submitted.
Note:
 “Obtaining a certified copy” shall mean comparing the copy of the proof of 
possession of Aadhaar number where offline verification cannot be carried out or 
Officially Valid Document so produced by the customer with the original and 
recording the same on the copy by the authorized officer of the Bank.
 “Digital KYC” means the capturing live photo of the customer and Officially Valid 
Document or the proof of possession of Aadhaar, where offline verification cannot 
be carried out, along with the latitude and longitude of the location where such live 
photo is being taken by an authorized officer of the Bank.
 “Equivalent e-document” means an electronic equivalent of a document, issued by 
the issuing authority of such document with its valid digital signature including 
Page 7 of 65
documents issued to the digital locker account of the customer as per rule 9 of the 
Information Technology (Preservation and Retention of Information by 
Intermediaries Providing Digital Locker Facilities) Rules, 2016.
3.1.4 In case, Officially Valid Documents (OVDs) furnished by the customer does not 
contain updated address, the following documents or the equivalent e-documents 
thereof shall be deemed to be the OVDs for the limited purpose of proof of address: 
i) Utility bill which is not more than two months old of any service provider 
(electricity, telephone, post-paid mobile phone, piped gas, water bill);
ii) Property or Municipal tax receipt;
iii) Pension or family pension payment orders (PPOs) issued to retired employees by 
Government Department or Public Sector Undertakings, if they contain the 
address;
iv) Letter of allotment of accommodation from employer issued by State Government 
or Central Government Departments, statutory or regulatory bodies, public sector 
undertakings, scheduled commercial banks, financial institutions and listed 
companies and leave and license agreements with such employers allotting official 
accommodation.
(The Customer shall submit updated Officially Valid Document with current address 
within a period of three months of submitting the above document). 
3.1.5 The account holder is required to maintain minimum average balance in the 
account, as specified by the Bank from time to time, separately for branches of 
different population group. Non-compliance of this would attract services charges. 
Bank has discretion to change the above norms and levy charges for non-compliance 
of the same. However, adequate notice will be given duly informing the change/s. 
3.1.6 The interest on Savings Deposit is calculated on daily product basis and 
credited to the Customers’ accounts on quarterly intervals in every financial 
year on 27th of June, 27th of September, 27th of December and 27th of March 
or shorter intervals.
3.1.7 Service charges will be collected if the number of withdrawals (excluding Alternate 
Channel debits) exceeds 50 for every half year period.
3.1.8 For existing accounts, Issue of cheque book is subject to satisfactory operation in 
the account. Issue of multiple cheque books is at the discretion of the Branch 
Manager.
3.1.9 Cheques, Dividend Warrants drawn in the name of account holder/s only will be 
collected through the account. 
3.1.10 An instrument having date as per Saka Samvat calendar is a valid instrument. A Date 
Conversion inquiry facility is provided in CBS. Bank shall ascertain the Gregorian 
calendar date corresponding to the National Saka calendar in order to avoid payment 
of stale cheques.
3.1.11 Pass book is provided to customer and updated periodically.
Page 8 of 65
3.2 Canara Basic Savings Bank Deposit Accounts:
As per RBI guidelines, the Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account should be considered a 
normal banking service available to all.
The following basic minimum facilities in the Canara Basic Saving Bank Deposit 
Account (BSBDA), are to be offered free of charge, without any requirement of 
minimum balance:
3.2.1 The deposit of cash at bank branch as well as ATMs/CDMs.
3.2.2 Receipt/Credit of money through electronic payment channels or by means of 
deposit/ collection of cheques drawn by Central/ State Government agencies and 
departments.
3.2.3 No limit on the number and value of deposits that can be made in a month.
3.2.4 Four withdrawals in a month, including ATM withdrawals.
3.2.5 ATM card or ATM-cum-Debit Card.
The above facilities will be provided without any charges. Further, no charge will be 
levied for non-operation/ activation of inoperative “Basic Savings Bank Deposit 
Account”.
Provide additional value-added services, including issue of cheque book, beyond the 
above minimum facilities, which may/may not be priced (in non-discriminatory 
manner) subject to extant guidelines of the Bank in this regard. The availment of such 
additional services, branches shall not require the customer to maintain a minimum 
balance.
Offering additional services will not make a BSBD account a non-BSBD account, so long 
as the prescribed minimum services (mentioned above) are provided free of charge.
The Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account is subject to RBI instructions on Know Your 
Customer (KYC)/ Anti-Money laundering (AML) for opening of Bank accounts issued 
from time to time. 
Holders of Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account will not be eligible for opening any 
other savings bank deposit account in the bank. If a customer has any other existing 
savings bank deposit account in the bank, he/she will be required to close such 
existing accounts within 30 days from the date of opening of “Canara Basic Savings 
Bank Deposit Account”. 
While opening a Canara BSBD account, a declaration is to be obtained from the 
customer that he/she is not having a BSBD account in any other Bank.
3.3 Accounts under Relaxed KYC Guidelines (Small Accounts)- “Canara Small Savings 
Bank Deposit” account.
Although flexibility in the requirements of documents of identity and proof of address 
has been provided in the KYC guidelines, it has been observed that a large number of 
persons, especially, those belonging to low income group both in urban and rural areas 
are not able to produce such documents to satisfy the Bank about their identity and 
address. This would lead to their inability to access the banking services and result in 
their financial exclusion. In such cases, if a person who wants to open an account and 
is not able to produce documents mentioned in Annexure-A, Bank shall open an 
account with Relaxed KYC guidelines.
Page 9 of 65
The accounts with “Relaxed KYC guidelines” can be opened under “Canara Small 
Savings Bank Deposit Account”. The features of the above account and restrictions 
stipulated by RBI/Govt. of India are as under:
• Accounts where aggregate of all credits in a financial year does not exceed Rs.1.00 
lakh; 
• The aggregate of all withdrawals and transfers in a month does not exceed 
Rs.10,000/- and 
• Where the balance at any point of time does not exceed Rs.50,000/-.
The above limit on balance shall not be considered while making deposits through 
Government grants, welfare benefits and payment against procurements.
Any violation of the stipulations mentioned above will result in restraining the 
operations in the account after giving due notice to the account holder.
Canara Small Savings Bank Deposit account can be opened on production of a selfattested photograph and affixation of signature or thumb impression as the case may 
be, on the form for opening the account, provided that the bank official while opening 
the account certifies under his/her signature that the person opening the account has 
affixed his/her signature or thumb impression as the case may be, in his/her presence.
A Canara Small Savings Bank Deposit Account shall remain operational initially for a 
period of twelve months and thereafter for a further period of twelve months if the 
holder of such an account provides evidence before the Bank of having applied for 
any of the officially valid documents within twelve months of the opening of the said 
account. The entire relaxation provisions are to be reviewed in respect of the said 
account after twenty-four months.
Holders of Canara Small Savings Bank Deposit Account will not be eligible for opening 
any other savings bank deposit account in the Bank. If a customer has any other 
existing savings bank deposit account in the Bank, he/she will be required to close 
such existing accounts within 30 days from the date of opening of “Canara Small 
Savings Bank Deposit Account”. 
Once the account holder keeps a balance of more than Rs. 50,000/- in the account 
opened under the scheme and in any other deposits accounts put together, or if the 
total credit in one year in all the deposit accounts including the account opened under 
the scheme exceeds Rs.1 lakh or if the total withdrawal and transfers in a month 
exceeds Rs. 10,000/-, the account holder should necessarily undergo full KYC 
procedure. In case, the account holder fails to undergo full KYC procedure, further 
transactions in his/her Canara Small Savings Bank Deposit Account shall not be 
permitted.
In respect of “Small Accounts”, the prescribed limits/conditions should not be 
breached and compliance therewith should be strictly monitored.
A Canara Small Savings Bank Deposit Account shall be monitored and when there is 
suspicion of money laundering or financing of terrorism or other high risk scenarios, 
the identity of customer shall be established through the production of officially valid 
documents. 
Foreign remittances shall not be allowed to be credited into a Canara Small Savings 
Bank Deposit Account unless the identity of the customer is fully established through 
the production of officially valid documents.
Page 10 of 65
3.4 Documents required by a foreign student to open a Bank account:
(1) Proof of Identity: Passport, Valid Visa with photograph.
(2) Proof of Admission: A letter from the University or College.
(3) Address Proof: A letter from the College or Hostel, certificate from the Embassy 
of the country of origin or any appropriate Legal Authority certified local address 
in India/rent agreement/certification of registration issued by Foreigner 
Registration Regional Office (FRRO).
Branches may open NRO Account on the basis of the passport (with appropriate visa 
& immigration endorsement) which contains proof of identity and address in the home 
country along with a photograph and a letter offering admission from the educational 
institution in India.
• Provided that a declaration about the local address shall be obtained within a 
period of 30 days of opening the account and the said local address is verified.
• Provided further that pending the verification of address, the account shall be 
operated with a condition of allowing foreign remittances not exceeding USD 1000 
or equivalent into the account and a cap of rupees fifty thousand on aggregate in 
the same, during the 30-days period.
The account shall be treated as normal NRO account and shall be operated in terms 
of RBI’s instructions on Non-Resident Ordinary Rupee (NRO) Account, and the provision 
of FEMA 1999.
Students with Pakistani nationality will need prior approval of RBI for opening the 
account.
RBI has clarified that in terms of Section 2(V) of FEMA 1999 definition of a person 
resident in India does not include a person who has come to stay in India for any 
purpose which would indicate his stay for a definite period. Accordingly a foreign 
student coming to India would be considered as “Non-resident” and a resident account 
cannot be opened for him.
4. CURRENT ACCOUNT:
Current Accounts are designed to meet the needs of such sections of the public who 
operate their account regularly and frequently. i.e., Traders, Businessmen, Corporate 
bodies or the like, who receive money and make payments very often. Current 
accounts are suitable to such category of customers as there are no restrictions on 
the number of withdrawal or deposit. Current accounts can be opened by individuals, 
proprietary concerns, partnership firms, Private & Public Ltd Co., HUFs/Specified 
associations, Societies, Trusts, Limited Liability Partnerships, Departments of 
Authority created by Government (Central or State), etc.
As required by law, while opening the account, the Bank will satisfy itself about the 
identity, satisfying about his occupation and source of income, including verification 
of address of the person/s seeking to open an account to assist in protecting the 
prospective customers, public and the Bank against fraud and other misuse of the 
Banking system duly observing the KYC guidelines of RBI.
Introduction from an existing customer is not mandatory for opening accounts, 
including those of legal entities. An account will be considered fully KYC compliant 
after obtention of KYC documents like recent photographs, proof of identity and proof 
of address, verification of these documents & updation of the details in the system 
(For details refer Annexure-A).
Page 11 of 65
Only the Officially Valid Documents mentioned in Annexure-A would be accepted for 
opening accounts of individuals/entities. Branches should not accept any other 
document for this purpose. (For details refer Annexure-A).
4.1 The Bank is required to obtain 2 photographs of all the person/s who are opening and 
operating the account.
4.2 The Bank is required to obtain Permanent Account Number [PAN] or alternatively 
obtain declaration in Form No.60 as per the Income Tax Act from the person/s opening 
the account [i.e., including partners or registered/unregistered partnership as also 
registered/corporate bodies/companies, etc.]. The PAN shall be verified from the 
verification facility of the issuing authority.
4.3 The Bank will provide to the prospective customer’s details of the documents required 
for identification of the person/s opening the account. Minimum Balance as stipulated 
from time to time is required to be maintained by the customers.
4.4 No interest is paid on credit balance kept in Current Account.
4.5 Service charges are levied for:
▪ Ledger folio used.
▪ Cheque books issued.
▪ Non-maintenance of minimum balance.
▪ Return of cheques, ECS, etc.
▪ Other facilities as per extant guidelines.
4.6 Current Accounts for Executors, Administrators, Trustees, liquidators, etc., can also 
be opened.
4.7 Statement of account is provided to the account holder monthly or at periodic 
intervals, as per the choice of the account holder.
4.8 For Proprietary concerns, Customer Due Diligence of the individual (proprietor) are 
to be carried out and any two of the following documents or the equivalent 
e-documents in the name of the proprietary concern should be submitted:
(i) Registration Certificate including Udyam Registration Certificate (URC) issued 
by the Government.
(ii) Certificate/license issued by the Municipal authorities under Shop & 
Establishment Act.
(iii) Sales and income tax returns.
(iv) CST/VAT/GST certificate,
(v) Certificate / registration document issued by Sales Tax / Service Tax / 
Professional Tax authorities.
(vi) The complete Income Tax return (not just the acknowledgement) in the name of 
the sole Proprietor where the firm’s income is reflected, duly 
authenticated/acknowledged by the Income Tax Authorities.
(vii) Utility bills such as electricity, water and landline telephone bills. 
(viii)IEC (Importer Exporter Code) issued to the proprietary concern by the office of 
DGFT/License/certificate of practice issued in the name of the proprietary 
concern by any professional body incorporated under a statute.
Though the default rule is that any two documents mentioned above should be provided 
as activity proof by a Proprietary concern, in cases where the branches are satisfied 
that it is not possible to furnish two such documents, they would have the discretion to 
accept only one of those documents as activity proof. In such cases, the branches, 
however, would have to undertake contact point verification, collect such information 
Page 12 of 65
as would be required to establish the existence of such firm, confirm, clarify and satisfy 
them that the business activity has been verified from the address of the proprietary 
concern.
4.9 The detailed guideline for opening of current account is as under:
4.9.1 Opening of Current Accounts for borrowers availing Cash Credit / Overdraft 
Facilities from the Banking System:
(A) For borrowers, where the aggregate exposure of the banking system is less than 
₹5 Crore: 
Branch can open current accounts without any restrictions subject to obtaining an 
undertaking from such customers that they (the borrowers) shall inform the branch, 
if and when the credit facilities availed by them from the banking system becomes 
₹5 Crore or more.
(B) Where the aggregate exposure of the banking system is ₹5 Crore or more:
➢ Borrowers can open current accounts with any one of the banks with which it has 
CC/OD facility, provided that the bank has at least 10 per cent of the aggregate 
exposure of the banking system to that borrower. In case none of the lenders has 
at least 10 per cent of the aggregate exposure, the bank having the highest 
exposure among CC/OD providing banks may open current accounts.
➢ Other lending banks may open only collection accounts subject to the condition 
that funds deposited in such collection accounts will be remitted within two 
working days of receiving such funds, to the CC/OD account maintained with the 
above-mentioned bank (Para 4.9.1 (B)) maintaining current accounts for the 
borrower. The balances in such collection accounts shall not be used for 
repayment of any credit facilities provided by the bank, or as collateral/ margin 
for availing any fund or non-fund based credit facilities. However, banks 
maintaining collection accounts are permitted to debit fees/ charges from such 
accounts before transferring funds to CC/OD account.
➢ Non-lending banks shall not open any current account for such borrowers.
4.9.2 Opening of Current Accounts for borrowers not availing Cash Credit/ Overdraft 
Facilities from the banking system:
(A)In case of borrowers where aggregate exposure of the banking system is 
₹50 Crore or more:
i) Banks shall be required to put in place an escrow mechanism. Borrowers shall be 
free to choose any lending bank as their escrow managing bank. All lending banks 
should be part of the escrow agreement. The terms and conditions of the 
agreement may be decided mutually by lending banks and the borrower.
ii) Current accounts of such borrowers can only be opened/ maintained by the escrow 
managing bank.
iii) Other lending banks can open ‘collection accounts’ subject to the condition that 
funds will be remitted from these accounts to the said escrow account at the 
frequency agreed between the bank and the borrower. Further, balances in such 
collection accounts shall not be used for repayment of any credit facilities 
Page 13 of 65
provided by the bank, or as collateral/ margin for availing any fund or non-fund 
based credit facilities. While there is no prohibition on amount or number of 
credits in ‘collection accounts’, debits in these accounts shall be limited to the 
purpose of remitting the proceeds to the said escrow account. However, banks 
maintaining collection accounts are permitted to debit fees/ charges from such 
accounts before transferring funds to the escrow account.
iv) Non-lending banks shall not open any current account for such borrowers.
(B)In case of borrowers where aggregate exposure of the banking system is ₹5 
Crore or more but less than ₹50 Crore:
There is no restriction on opening of current accounts by the lending banks. 
However, non-lending banks may open only collection accounts as detailed at Para 
4.9.2(iii) above.
(C)In case of borrowers where aggregate exposure of the banking system is less 
than ₹5 Crore:
Branch may open current accounts subject to obtaining an undertaking from them 
that they (the Customers) shall inform the bank(s), if and when the credit facilities 
availed by them from the banking system becomes ₹5 Crore or more. The current 
account of such customers, as and when the aggregate exposure of the banking 
system becomes ₹5 Crore or more, and ₹50 Crore or more, will be governed by the 
provisions of Para 4.9.2 (A) & (B) respectively.
4.9.3 Opening of Current Account for Customer who have availed credit facilities only 
from NBFCs/FIs/Co-operative Banks/ Non-Bank Institutions:
Banks are free to open current accounts, without any of the restrictions as 
mentioned above, for borrowers having credit facilities only from NBFCs/ FIs/ cooperative banks/ non-bank institutions, etc. However, if such borrowers avail 
aggregate credit facilities of ₹5 Crore or above from the banks covered under these 
guidelines, the provisions as per the above shall be applicable.
4.9.4 Opening of Current Account for Customers who have not availed any credit 
facilities from Banking System:
Branches are free to open current accounts of prospective customers who have not 
availed any credit facilities from the banking system, subject to necessary due 
diligence as per existing guidelines.
4.9.5 Branches should not route drawal from term loans through CC/ OD/ Current accounts 
of the borrower. Since term loans are meant for specific purposes, the funds should 
be remitted directly to the supplier of goods and services. In cases where term loans 
are meant for purposes other than for supply of goods and services and where the 
payment destination is identifiable, banks shall ensure that payment is made 
directly, without routing it through an account of the borrower. However, where 
the payment destination is unidentifiable, banks may route such term loans through 
an account of the borrower opened as per the provisions of the circular. Expenses 
incurred by the borrower for day-to-day operations may be routed through an 
account of the borrower.
Page 14 of 65
4.9.6 Branches are permitted to open and operate the following accounts without any 
of the restrictions placed in terms of the above mentioned guidelines:
(a) Specific accounts which are stipulated under various statutes and specific 
instructions of other regulators/ regulatory departments/ Central and State 
Governments. An indicative list of such accounts is given below:
(i) Accounts for real estate projects mandated under Section 4 (2) l (D) of the Real 
Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 for the purpose of maintaining 70 
per cent of advance payments collected from the home buyers.
(ii) Nodal or escrow accounts of payment aggregators/ prepaid payment instrument 
issuers for specific activities as permitted by Department of Payments and 
Settlement Systems (DPSS), Reserve Bank of India under Payment and Settlement 
Systems Act, 2007.
(iii) Accounts for the purpose of IPO/ NFO/ FPO/ share buyback/ dividend payment/ 
issuance of commercial papers/ allotment of debentures/ gratuity etc. which are 
mandated by respective statutes or by regulators and are meant for specific/ 
limited transactions only.
(b) Accounts opened as per the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
(FEMA) and notifications issued thereunder including any other current account if it 
is mandated for ensuring compliance under the FEMA framework.
(c) Accounts for payment of taxes, duties, statutory dues, etc. opened with banks 
authorized to collect the same, for borrowers of such banks which are not authorized 
to collect such taxes, duties, statutory dues, etc.
(d) Accounts for settlement of dues related to debit card/ ATM card/ credit card 
issuers/ acquirers.
(e) Accounts of White Label ATM Operators and their agents for sourcing of currency.
(f) Accounts of Cash-in-Transit (CIT) Companies/ Cash Replenishment Agencies (CRAs) 
for providing cash management services.
(g) Accounts opened by a branch funding a specific project for receiving/monitoring 
cash flows of that specific project, provided the borrower has not availed any CC/OD 
facility for that project.
(h) Inter-bank accounts.
(i) Accounts of All India Financial Institutions (AIFIs), viz., EXIM Bank, NABARD, NHB, 
and SIDBI.
(j) Accounts attached by orders of Central or State governments/ regulatory body/ 
Courts/ investigating agencies etc. wherein the customer cannot undertake any 
discretionary debits.
Branches maintaining accounts exempted as per the above list shall ensure that these 
accounts are used for permitted/ specified transactions only. Further, Branch shall flag 
these accounts in the CBS for easy monitoring. Lenders to such borrowers may also 
enter into agreements/ arrangements with the borrowers for monitoring of cash flows/ 
periodic transfer of funds (if permissible) in these accounts.
Bank shall monitor all current accounts and CC/ODs regularly, at least on a half-yearly 
basis, specifically with respect to the exposure of the banking system to the borrower 
and the bank’s share in that exposure, to ensure compliance with these instructions. If 
there is a change in exposure of banks or aggregate exposure of the banking system to 
Page 15 of 65
the borrower which warrants implementation of new banking arrangements, such 
changes shall be implemented within a period of three months from the date of such 
monitoring.
4.9.7 Flow Chart- Opening of Current Account:
5. TERM DEPOSIT ACCOUNT:
Term deposits are deposits received by the Bank for a fixed period, withdrawable after 
the expiry of the fixed period and include deposits such as 
Recurring/Fixed/Kamadhenu/Nitya Nidhi Deposit (a special scheme), etc. Bank has 
tailored various term deposit schemes to suit the needs and expectation of the investing 
people from all walks of life. Term deposits can be opened by individuals, partnership 
firms, Private/Public Ltd Companies, HUFs, Institutions, Societies, Trusts, Limited 
Liability Partnership, Departments of Authority created by Government (Central or 
State), etc.
The Minimum period for placing deposit under Fixed deposits (FD) Scheme is 7 days (for 
deposits of Rs.5 lakh and above) otherwise the minimum period is 15 days. The minimum 
period under reinvestment scheme- Kamadhenu Deposit (KD) is 5 months and 6 months 
under Recurring deposit (RD). The maximum period for deposits under Fixed deposits 
(FD), Kamadhenu Deposit (KD) and Recurring deposit (RD) is 10 years. However, deposits 
in the name of Minors and deposits under court orders are accepted for more than 10 
years’ period. Rate of interest as applicable to the deposits for 10 years’ slab 
prevailing at the time of opening the term deposit shall be applicable to the 
deposits opened for more than 10 years’ period under exceptional cases such as 
deposits accepted under court orders.
NND (Nitya Nidhi Deposit) scheme is intended to mop up the small savings and is 
specially designed for daily savers of small means and based on daily door collection by 
Page 16 of 65
Agents appointed by the Bank. The accounts under the NND scheme shall be opened 
with tenor of 63 months only. Minimum amount of daily contribution to NND Scheme is 
Rs.50 (Rupees Fifty Only). Daily collection per day per account shall not exceed 
Rs.1000/- (Maximum Rs. 30,000/- in a month). No interest and commission shall be paid 
beyond this limit. The detailed interest rates (Including interest rates applicable on 
premature withdrawal) for deposits under NND Scheme are announced from time to 
time by the Bank. A penalty of 0.05% on the Interest payable for premature closure of 
the NND deposit will be collected on premature closure of NND Deposit when closed 
within 12 months.
As required by law, while opening of the term deposit account, the Bank will satisfy 
itself about the identity, satisfying about his occupation and source of income, 
including verification of address of the person/s seeking to open an account to assist in 
protecting the prospective customers, public and the Bank itself against fraud and other 
misuse of the Banking system duly observing the KYC guidelines of RBI.
Introduction from an existing customer is not mandatory for opening accounts, 
including those of legal entities. An account will be considered fully KYC compliant 
after obtention of KYC documents like recent photographs, proof of identity and proof 
of address, verification of these documents & updation of the details in the system. 
(For details refer Annexure-A).
Full KYC exercise involves obtention of KYC documents like recent photographs, proof
of identity and proof of address, verification of these documents, and safe keeping of 
the photographs/documents.
Only the ‘Officially Valid Documents’ mentioned in Annexure-A would be accepted for 
opening accounts of individuals/entities. Branches should not accept any other 
document for this purpose. (For details refer Annexure-A).
5.1 The Branch is required to obtain 2 photographs of all the person/s who are opening and 
operating the account. Photograph will not be insisted from depositors already having 
their SB/ Current Account with photographs.
5.2 The Branch is required to obtain Permanent Account Number [PAN] or alternatively 
obtain declaration in Form No.60 as per the Income Tax Act from the person/s opening 
the account. The PAN shall be verified from the verification facility of the issuing 
authority. The Bank will provide to the prospective customers details of the documents 
required for identification and Address Proof of the person/s opening the account. 
Persons & entities already having operative accounts such as Savings Bank, Current 
account, etc., need not provide the above documents for opening of the Term Deposit 
accounts.
5.3 The rate of interest for Term Deposits is decided by the Asset Liability Committee of 
the Bank, who has been delegated with such powers by the Board of the Bank. This 
interest rate is uniformly applied to all customers without any negotiation or 
discrimination. Hitherto Bank has been paying an additional interest of 1.28% above the 
prevailing rates for Army/Navy/Air force Insurance Groups. But as per RBI Circular dated 
06.08.2015, the same has been withdrawn.
5.4 Premature withdrawals are allowed. 
(a) A penalty of 1.00% shall be levied for premature closure/part withdrawal/premature 
extension (penalty is waived if premature extension period is more than the original 
period as mentioned in paragraph below) of Domestic/NRO term deposits of less than 
Page 17 of 65
Rs.3 Crore that are accepted /renewed on or after 07.06.2024. However, waiver 
of penalty for premature closure/part withdrawal of term deposits may be 
permitted on case-to-case basis by the ED-CAC on the recommendation of the 
Circle Head.
(b) Penalty is waived for premature extension of Domestic / NRO term deposits of less 
than Rs.3 Crore during the tenure, where extension is for a period longer than the 
period originally agreed to.
(c) A penalty of 1.00% is waived in case of premature closure/part withdrawal/ 
premature extension of Domestic/NRO CALLABLE term deposit of Rs. 3 Crore & 
above that are accepted/renewed on or after 07.06.2024. Such prematurely 
closed/part withdrawn/prematurely extended deposits will earn interest at the rate 
as applicable for the amount slab of Rs.3 Crore & above as ruling on the date of 
deposit and as applicable for the period run OR the rate at which the deposit has 
been accepted, whichever is lower. A penalty of 1.00% is applicable on Term Deposits 
under Capital Gains Account Scheme-1988, which are prematurely 
converted/withdrawn/closed, irrespective of the size of the deposit amount. 
Further, no interest will be payable on Domestic/NRO term deposits prematurely 
closed/prematurely extended before completion of 7th day. (Including for Sweep inSweep out deposits).
(d) Canara Tax Saver: In case of deceased depositor, pre-mature closure can be 
permitted by Circle Head.
5.5 Non-Callable Deposit: A term deposit without premature withdrawal option.
All Term Deposits accepted from individuals (held singly or jointly) for amount of 
Rupees One Crore and below shall have premature withdrawal facility.
5.5.1 Non-Callable deposit closure can be permitted under following exceptional 
circumstances:
a) Death of Depositor.
b) In case of bankruptcy of depositor/s, insolvency etc.
c) In case of winding up of business/closure of departments/institutions etc.
d) In case of Government/Regulatory order/court order
e) In the event of Banker’s right to set-off (i.e., legal right of the bank to set off or 
adjust the debit amount against the credit amount in the balance of the same 
borrower).
f) Deposit made erroneously (subject to examination of staff lapses).
5.5.2 Rate of interest to be paid on Non-Callable deposits that are closed under exceptional 
circumstances (above cases) is as under:
If Non-Callable term deposit is closed based on above circumstances, ROI at 1.00% 
below the rate as applicable for Callable deposits, for the relevant amount slab as ruling 
on the date of deposit and as applicable for the period run OR 1.00% below the rate at 
which the deposit has been accepted, whichever is lower. However, no interest will be 
payable on term deposits prematurely closed/prematurely extended before completion 
of 7th day. (No penalty in case of death of depositor and deposits made erroneously 
subject to examination of staff lapses).
Delegated authority to permit the payment of interest for the Non-callable deposits 
shall be with Wing Head of Resources Wing, for the above cases based on the 
recommendations of Circle Head.
Page 18 of 65
The Guidelines on Non-Callable deposit are as under:
NON-CALLABLE DEPOSITS
Minimum Period 46 Days
Maximum Period 10 Years
Eligibility All types of Customers (Domestic/NRO/NRE)
Minimum Amount Above Rs.1.00 Crore
Maximum Amount No limit
Premature Closure Not Permitted
Part-Withdrawal Not Permitted
Sweep In/Sweep Out No
Auto Renewal
Auto renewal facility is not available for 
Non-Callable deposits. However, in case of 
existing lien against Non-callable deposits, 
the deposit gets force renewed to 
corresponding Callable deposit product for 
the same term with ROI prevailing on the 
date of renewal.
Non-Callable deposit, Part withdrawal/Premature withdrawal not permitted; should 
be mentioned on the deposit application. 
5.6 Generally, loans/overdrafts against deposits are allowed. Such loans are sanctioned 
by charging interest at rates announced from time to time by the Bank. The Bank may 
also consider loan against deposit standing in the name of Minor. However, a suitable 
declaration stating that loan is for the benefit of the Minor is to be submitted by the 
guardian.
5.7 Deposits shall be automatically renewed by the Bank on due dates for similar periods 
as per the mandate of the depositor in the original application except in case of 
encumbered deposits, CGA deposits, Canara Tax Saver deposits, Non-callable 
deposits, discontinued products and in case of deposits where alternate instructions 
are available. The rate of interest prevailing on the date of maturity shall be the rate 
applicable for the renewed deposit. All other terms and conditions stated in the 
application will remain valid. The Bank intimates the depositor in advance regarding 
the date of maturity of the term deposit.
5.8 Interest shall be calculated at quarterly intervals on term deposits and paid at the 
rate decided by the Bank depending upon the period of deposits. Interest on Fixed 
Deposit is payable either monthly at discounted value or quarterly or half yearly or 
yearly or on maturity. The interest on Term deposits is calculated by the Bank in 
accordance with the formulae and conventions advised by Indian Banks' Association. 
The interest rates for term deposits are decided by the Asset Liability Committee of 
the Bank (ALCO) and shall be as applicable on the date of issue/renewal of the Term 
Deposit.
5.9 Premature extension/renewal of term deposit: In case the depositor desires to 
renew the deposit by seeking premature closure of an existing term deposit, the Bank 
will permit the renewal at the applicable rate on the date of renewal, provided the 
deposit has run for a minimum period of 7 days (for deposits of Rs.5 lakh and above) 
and the deposit is renewed for a period longer than the balance period of the original 
Page 19 of 65
deposit. While prematurely closing a deposit for the purpose of renewal, interest on 
the deposit for the period it has remained with the Bank will be paid at the rate 
applicable to the period the deposit has remained with the Bank, subject to penalty 
(if any) and not at the contracted rate.
5.10 Renewal of overdue Term Deposit: When a domestic/ Ordinary Non-Resident (NRO) 
term deposit is renewed on maturity, the interest rate ruling on the date of maturity 
for the period specified by the depositor would be extended. Facility of Automatic 
renewal of domestic/NRO term deposits is available for depositors who exercise their 
option for auto renewal except CGA deposits, Canara Tax Saver deposits and NonCallable deposits. 
5.11 If a Domestic Term deposits matures and proceeds are unpaid, the amount left 
unclaimed with the Bank shall attract rate of interest as applicable to saving account 
or the contracted rate of interest on the matured TD, whichever is lower.
5.12 a) Opening of term deposits (Domestic/NRO/NRE) with Value date may be permitted 
on case to case basis by the Resources Wing Head, based on the recommendations of 
the Circle Head.
b) Opening of Foreign Currency term deposits (such as FCNR (B)/RFC) with Value 
date may be permitted on case-to-case basis by the Integrated Treasury Wing 
Head, based on the recommendations of the Circle Head.
5.13 Deposits maturing on Holiday/non-business working day:
If a term deposit is maturing for payment on a Holiday/non-business working day, 
interest shall be paid at the originally contracted rate on the original principal deposit 
amount for the Holiday/non-business working day, intervening between the date of 
the maturity of the specified term of the deposit and the date of payment of the 
proceeds of the deposit on the succeeding working day.
In case of reinvestment of Term deposits and recurring deposits, interest shall be paid 
at the originally contracted rate for the intervening Holiday/non-business working day 
on the maturity value.
5.14 BULK DEPOSITS:
As per RBI Master Direction on Interest Rates on Deposits, "Bulk Deposit" is defined 
as “Single Rupee term deposit of 3 Crore and above” w.e.f. 07.06.2024.
The rate of interest for Bulk Deposits is decided by the Asset Liability Committee of 
the Bank, who has been delegated with such powers by the Board of the Bank. 
If branches are desirous of quoting additional rate with or without validity 
period for Bulk deposits, a sub-committee of ALCO (ALCO Sub-committee) approved 
by the Board of directors shall be vested with delegated powers to quote additional 
interest of maximum 50 bps over and above the card rate. The rate so published 
shall be uniform to all the deposits with the same amount and tenor. The proposals 
falling under the powers of ALCO Subcommittee shall be taken up with the Committee 
by Integrated Treasury Wing based on market conditions and ongoing rates.
The ALCO Subcommittee shall consist of the following:
1. Executive Director Overseeing Integrated Treasury Wing
2. CGM/GM, Integrated Treasury Wing
3. CGM/GM, Group Chief Finance Officer, Financial Management Wing.
Page 20 of 65
4. CGM/GM. Chief Risk Officer, Risk Management Wing.
5. CGM/GM, Strategy & Data Analytics Wing
6. CGM/GM, Resources Wing 
The additional interest over card rates shall be approved by minimum of three 
committee members out of which approval of Executive Director Overseeing Integrated 
Treasury Wing is mandatory. 
Monthly consolidated note on all the proposals permitted by ALCO sub-committee shall 
be placed before the ALCO by Integrated Treasury Wing for information.
SOP for Bulk Deposits is enclosed in Annexure-I (A). Any change in SOP shall be 
permitted by S & P Committee.
Presently, there is no penalty for premature closure/part withdrawal/premature 
extension of Domestic/NRO term deposit of Rs.3 Crore & above.
The upper limit for a branch, to accept single term deposit at Card rate, has been 
enhanced to less than Rs.10 Crore with effect from 26.03.2020. However, if branches 
are desirous of quoting deposits with validity period / additional rate for Bulk Deposit 
of Rs.3 Crore and above then permission has to be obtained from Integrated Treasury 
Wing through their respective Circle Office.
For Single Bulk Domestic term deposit of Rs.10 Crore and above, only Designated 
branches shall take up with T & I Division, Integrated Treasury Wing, Mumbai, HO 
through Resources Section of respective Circle office for obtaining permission to accept 
the deposit. Head of Resources Wing is permitted to designate any branch (other than 
Designated branches) to open Single Bulk Term Deposit of “Rs.10 Crore and above” in 
exceptional circumstances based on business needs and on the recommendation of the 
Circle Head.
In case of all Bulk Deposits of Rs.3 Crore & above, a confirmatory letter in the form of 
a “Thanks giving” letter will be sent by the Bank to the beneficiary by Registered 
Post/Reputed Courier as well as e-mail and SMS wherever email ID and mobile number 
are available, giving necessary details.
KYC guidelines shall be complied with scrupulously while accepting bulk term deposits. 
Proper application, documents and resolution of the Board/Governing Body (wherever 
applicable), etc. have to be obtained and verified for its genuineness.
In respect of bulk term deposits, opening of term deposit account and printing of 
Deposit Receipt shall be done on the same day of accepting/ clearance of the proceeds.
A Power of Attorney holder from the branch accepting the bulk term deposit/ upcountry 
branch/Circle (where the depositor is located) shall pay a personal visit to the office of 
the beneficiary after opening the bulk term deposit. This visit may coincide with the 
handing over of the Deposit Receipt against due acknowledgement from the depositor/ 
depositor’s authorized representative.
The visit of the Bank Official and handing over of the deposit receipt shall be properly 
recorded. Such record shall be kept in a separate file which may be verified and 
commented upon by the Overseeing Executive during the interface with the branch/ 
branch visit. The branch-in-charge shall be responsible for getting the same verified by 
the Overseeing Executive. Compliance of this aspect shall be ensured by the Inspecting 
Officers during the regular inspection of the branch.
Page 21 of 65
In case of loan/overdraft facility of Rs.3 Crore and above against the term deposit, 
necessary due diligence shall be ensured by the branches. For loan/overdraft facility of 
less than Rs.10 Crore sanctioned against a term deposit, offsite monitoring should be 
done at the Operations Section, Circle Office and for loan/overdraft facility of Rs.10 
Crore & above offsite monitoring should be done at OTM Cell, Transaction Monitoring 
Vertical, Operations Wing, Head Office.
Branches should not credit the proceeds of loan to third party accounts in case of 
loans/advances granted on term deposits. The loan proceeds should be credited to the 
account of the depositor/s only.
Before disbursing the loan proceeds against term deposits, independent confirmation 
regarding request for loans to be obtained from the depositor, in addition to loan 
application. The extant guidelines on delegation of powers shall be strictly adhered to 
while sanctioning any Loans/Overdrafts against term deposits.
Reports to be generated from CBS on a day to day basis for large value transactions of 
Rs.3 Crore & above in respect of Term Deposits and Loans/Overdrafts granted against 
Term Deposits and Operations Section of the respective Circle Office should monitor 
these transactions every day.
Staffs are advised to ensure strict compliance of all the cited guidelines and staff 
accountability shall be fixed for any lapse on part of the staff in following the laid down 
guidelines either in processing a proposal or sanction/disbursement, or monitoring. 
Operations Section of the respective Circle Office should monitor the same. The 
statutory/ concurrent auditors may also be assigned in their TOR (Terms of Reference) 
to monitor this aspect more closely.
Review of all Bulk Deposit Transactions of Rs.3 Crore & above should be done by the 
respective Resources Section of Circle Office regularly. Review of loans against Bulk 
Term Deposits should be done by the respective Credit Review Section of Circle Office 
regularly.
A Callable deposit (premature withdrawal permissible) can be closed before maturity 
at any point of time without penalty and the rate of interest will be payable at the rate 
prevailing on the date of opening, for the period that the deposit has run.
5.15 Tax on Interest on Bank Deposits:
The Bank has statutory obligation to deduct tax at source if the total interest 
paid/payable in a financial year on all term deposits (including RD) held by a person 
exceeds the amount specified under the Income Tax Act. In case where PAN is not 
submitted by the customer, TDS will be deducted at prescribed rate or 20% whichever 
is higher. The Bank will issue a tax deduction certificate (TDS Certificate) for the 
amount of tax deducted wherever PAN was provided by the customer(s). The depositor, 
if entitled for exemption from TDS, can submit declaration in the prescribed format 
(Form 15G/H or exemption certificate u/s 197 of Income Tax Act, 1961) at the beginning 
of every financial year or at the time of opening of fresh deposit by new customer. TDS 
on interest of deposit shall be deducted if applicable, at the time of compounding of 
accrued interest on quarterly basis (anniversary quarter) and on accrual basis as on 31st 
March.
As per Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act 1961, every person eligible to obtain an 
Aadhaar and has PAN, must link their Aadhaar with their PAN by 30.06.2023. If a person 
failed to link Aadhaar with PAN on or before 30.06.2023, the PAN shall become 
inoperative from 01.07.2023 & continue till the PAN becomes operative. 
Page 22 of 65
Accordingly,
a) where tax is deductible under Chapter XVJJ-B in case of such person, such 
tax shall be deducted at higher rate, in accordance with the provisions of 
section 206AA;
b) where tax is collectible at source under Chapter XVJJ-BB in case of such 
person, such tax shall be collected at higher rate, in accordance with the 
provisions of section 206CC.
5.16 Payment of Interest on domestic Term Deposit (Including Tax Saver Deposit) of a 
deceased depositor:
5.16.1 In respect of the deposit of the deceased closed before maturity and repaid to the legal 
heirs/ representatives of the deceased depositor, interest is payable at the rate 
applicable for the period for which the deposit actually remained with the bank without 
penal cut.
5.16.2 In the event of the death of the depositor before the date of the maturity of the deposit 
and the amount of the deposit is claimed after the date of maturity, the bank shall pay 
interest at the contracted rate till the date of maturity. From the date of maturity till 
the date of payment, the bank shall pay simple interest at the applicable Savings bank 
rate prevailing on the date of maturity, for the period for which the deposit remained 
with the bank beyond the date of maturity.
5.16.3 In the case of death of the depositor after the date of maturity the bank shall pay 
interest at Savings Bank rate prevailing on the date of maturity, from the date of 
maturity till the date of payment.
5.17 Payment of interest on Death Claim settlement in respect of auto renewed 
deposits:
5.17.1 Payment of interest in the event of the death of the depositor before the date of 
maturity of the original deposit and the deposit is auto renewed on the date of maturity 
and the amount of deposit is claimed before or after the subsequent maturity date: 
➢ The bank shall pay interest at contracted rate till the date of maturity of the original 
deposit and thereafter Savings Bank deposit rate operative on the date of maturity of 
the original deposit from the date of maturity of the original deposit till the date of 
payment.
5.17.2 Payment of interest in the event of the death of the depositor after the date of maturity 
of the original deposit and the deposit is auto renewed on the date of maturity and the 
amount of deposit is claimed during the pendency of the auto renewed deposit (i.e. 
premature closure of the auto-renewed deposit):
➢ From the date of auto renewal of the deposit till the date of payment, interest rate 
applicable for the period run prevailing on the date of auto renewal of the deposit 
without penal cut.
The above is applicable for the first renewal cycle of auto renewal.
5.17.3 Payment of interest in the event of the death of the depositor after the date of maturity 
of the original deposit and the deposit is auto renewed on the date of maturity of the 
original deposit and the amount of deposit is claimed after the maturity date of the 
auto renewed deposit:
Page 23 of 65
(i) If the death of the depositor occurs after the date of maturity of the original deposit, 
but before the maturity of auto renewed deposit (i.e., first auto renewal) and the 
amount of deposit is claimed after the maturity of the auto renewed deposit:
➢ At the contracted rate till the date of maturity of auto-renewed deposit (i.e., first 
auto renewal).
➢ At Savings Bank deposit rate operative on the date of maturity of auto-renewed 
deposit from the date of maturity of the auto-renewed deposit till the date of 
payment.
(ii) If the auto renewal happens for more than once and the death of the depositor 
occurs during one of these auto renewal cycles, contracted rate shall be payable till 
the maturity date of the renewal cycle in which the death has occurred. Savings 
Bank rate shall be payable thereafter till the date of payment.
5.18 Term Deposits of Senior Citizens:
Additional interest of 0.50% is available to Senior Citizen deposits only in case of Retail 
Term Deposit (RTD- Less than Rs. 3.00 Crore) with tenor of 180 days and above under 
Domestic term deposits except CGA deposits, NRO/NRE term deposits. Senior Citizen 
Deposit can be opened by persons who have completed the age of 60 years and above, 
individually or jointly with other senior citizen or with other persons below the age 
of 60 years subject to the condition that the Senior Citizen is No. 1 Depositor. The 
Bank will satisfy about the age through verification of applicable documents and a 
copy of the same will be obtained along with the application. As per RBI direction, 
the system will automatically enable preferential ROI (i.e. 0.5 % over and above 
existing deposit rate) to all existing Domestic Term Deposits and RD deposits with 
effect from the date of customer becoming Senior Citizen.
For Ex-Employee Senior Citizens (60 years and above) additional 1.50% over and above 
the rate offered for General public is to be extended for all deposit periods (except 
for term deposits under NRO, and Capital Gains Deposit scheme), irrespective of the 
size of the deposit. However, under Canara Tax Saver Scheme, the additional interest 
rate offered to Ex-employee Senior Citizens over and above the rate offered for 
General Public is 1% only.
5.19 NRE TERM DEPOSITS:
Minimum period of NRE deposit is one year and maximum period is 10 years. There is 
no stipulation on minimum/maximum deposit amount. The period of NRE term 
deposits can be extended during the tenure of the deposit for a period longer than 
the original period (i.e., original period of the deposit). The period of the extended 
deposit shall be minimum of one year and a maximum of 10 years effective from the 
date of extension. The depositor should continue to be non-resident at the time of 
extension of deposit. 
Guidelines related to premature closure and renewal of NRE deposit will also be 
applicable in case of extension of deposit.
Account conversion due to change in residential status from Resident to Nonresident or vice versa:
Non-Resident (External) Rupee Account [NRE Account]
NRE accounts should be designated as resident accounts or the funds held in these 
accounts may be transferred to the RFC accounts, at the option of the account 
holder, immediately upon the return of the account holder to India for taking up 
employment or on change in the residential status.
Page 24 of 65
Non-Resident Ordinary Rupee Account [NRO Account]
NRO accounts shall be designated as resident accounts on the return of the 
account holder to India for any purpose indicating his intention to stay in India 
for an uncertain period.
Likewise, when a resident Indian becomes a person resident outside India, his 
existing resident account including term deposits shall be designated as NRO
account.
Preferential rate, if any, extended to Employees/Ex-employees/Ex-employees 
Senior Citizen, Senior Citizens and Super senior citizens shall be withdrawn from 
the date of change of residential status from resident Indian to NRI. Branches to 
collect the existing TD receipt and issue fresh receipt with revised ROI.
5.19.1 Renewal of overdue NRE Term Deposit:
a. The overdue NRE term deposit will be paid interest at prevailing NRE Savings Bank 
Rate for the overdue period. Renewal of overdue terms deposit from the date of 
maturity is prohibited. If such deposit is continued (entire amount or in part), the 
same will be treated as a fresh term deposit from the date of presentation, at the 
rate prevailing on the date of presentation for the period of fresh term deposit.
b. The entire amount of overdue deposit or a portion can be placed as fresh NRE Term 
Deposit from the date of presentation. The interest payable for fresh deposit is the 
rate prevailing as on the day of the fresh deposit, provided the period of the fresh 
deposit is not less than 1 year from the date of making such fresh deposit.
c. NRE term Deposit shall be automatically renewed only once by the Bank on due date 
for an identical period at the applicable rate of interest ruling on the date of maturity 
based on the mandate of the depositor in the original application form, unless 
instruction to the contrary is received from the depositor by the Bank. The renewal 
will be in accordance with the provisions of the relevant RBI scheme in force at the 
time of renewal. The depositor should continue to be non-resident at the time of 
renewal deposit.
5.19.2 Premature withdrawal of NRE term deposits:
1) A penalty of 1.00% shall be levied for premature closure/premature extension 
(penalty is waived if premature extension period is more than the original period as 
mentioned in paragraph below) of NRE term deposit of less than Rs.3 Crore that are 
accepted /renewed on or after 12.03.2019.
2) A penalty of 1.00% is waived in case of premature extension of NRE CALLABLE term 
deposit of less than Rs. 3 Crore during the tenure, where extension is for a period 
longer than the period originally agreed to. Further, no interest will be payable on 
NRE term deposits prematurely closed/prematurely extended before completion of 1 
year. 
The penalty of 1.00% is waived in case of premature closure/premature extension of 
NRE CALLABLE term deposit of Rs. 3 Crore & above that are accepted/renewed on or 
after 12.03.2019. Such prematurely closed/ prematurely extended deposits will earn 
interest at the rate as applicable for the amount slab of Rs.3 Crore & above as ruling 
on the date of deposit and as applicable for the period run OR the rate at which the 
deposit has been accepted, whichever is lower.
Page 25 of 65
a. However, no penalty will be charged for premature closure/extension of NRO term 
deposits that are placed in NRE term deposits.
b. NRO deposits can be placed in NRE deposits subject to:
➢ Such transfer is within the overall limit of USD 1.00 million or its equivalent in 
other currencies during a financial year, and
➢ Customer submitting Form 15CA and 15CB.
c. Where NRE deposit is to be closed before maturity before completion of one year 
from the effective date of deposit, no interest shall be payable on such premature 
closure.
d. In the case of premature withdrawal of NRE term deposit, for conversion into 
Resident Foreign Currency [RFC] account, the Bank may not levy any penalty for 
premature withdrawal. If such a deposit has not run for a minimum period of 1 year, 
the Bank may, at its discretion, pay interest at a rate not exceeding the rate payable 
on NRE Savings Bank Deposit, provided request for such a conversion is made by NRE 
account holder, immediately on return to India.
e. Where the NRE deposit is closed before maturity on or after completion of one year 
from the effective date of deposit, the interest payable on such premature closure 
shall be as per the prevailing Bank guidelines.
f. Conversion of NRE deposit into Foreign Currency Non-Resident [B] deposit and viceversa before maturity will be subject to the provision relating to premature 
withdrawal.
5.19.3 Payment of Interest on the NRE Term Deposit of a deceased depositor:
In the case of NRE deposit where the claimant/s are residents, the deposit on maturity 
will be treated as domestic deposit and interest will be paid for the subsequent period 
at a rate applicable to the domestic deposit of a similar maturity.
5.20 DEPOSITS HELD IN FCNR [BANKS] ACCOUNTS:
5.20.1 Important features of the Scheme:
a) Non-resident Indians (NRIs) and Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) are permitted to open 
and maintain FCNR (B) accounts. 
b) The scheme covers deposits in US Dollar (USD), Great Britain Pound (GBP), 
Euro(EUR), Canadian Dollars(CAD) and Australian Dollars(AUD) from non-resident 
individuals of Indian nationality or origin [NRIs].
c) Repatriation of funds in foreign currencies is permitted.
d) The deposits are accepted only in form of FDR or KDR under the Scheme for the 
following maturity periods:
DETAILS MINIMUM PERIOD MAXIMUM PERIOD
FCNR (B) KDR ONE YEAR FIVE YEARS
FCNR (B) FDR ONE YEAR FIVE YEARS
No Recurring Deposits shall be accepted under FCNR (B) Scheme.
e) Transfer of funds from the existing NRE accounts to FCNR (B) accounts and vice 
versa, of the same account holder, is permissible.
Page 26 of 65
f) Minimum Amount for opening FCNR(B) Account:
Currency USD GBP EUR CAD AUD
Minimum Amount 500 500 500 500 500
There is no maximum limit.
5.20.2 Manner of payment of interest:
• The rate of interests on FCNR (B) deposits are decided periodically by the Asset 
Liability Committee (ALCO) of the Bank, which has been delegated with such powers 
by the Board.
If branches are desirous of quoting deposits above the interest rate permitted 
by the ALCO, such proposals shall be placed before the ALCO Sub-committee by 
the Integrated Treasury Wing.
The ALCO Subcommittee shall be vested with delegated powers to quote 
additional interest of maximum upto 50 bps over and above the card rate. The 
rate so published shall be uniform to all the deposits with the same amount and 
tenor. 
The additional interest over card rates shall be approved by a minimum of three 
committee members out of which approval of the Executive Director overseeing 
Integrated Treasury Wing is mandatory. 
Monthly consolidated note on all the proposals permitted by ALCO sub-committee 
shall be placed before the ALCO by Integrated Treasury Wing for information.
• The Overnight Alternative Reference Rate for the respective currency /SWAP rates as 
on the last working day of the preceding month shall form the base for fixing ceiling 
rates for the interest rates offered effective in the following month.
• Bank shall adhere to the interest rates ceiling on FCNR(B) deposits stipulated by 
RBI, from time to time.
• The Overnight Alternative Reference Rate for the respective currency / Swap rates 
quoted / displayed by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt. Ltd. (FBIL) shall be used as the 
reference for arriving at the interest rates on FCNR(B) deposits.
• Accordingly, interest on FCNR (B) Deposits is intimated on a Monthly basis by 
Integrated Treasury Wing, Mumbai for following periods:
(a) One year and above but less than two years.
(b) Two years and above but less than three years.
(c) Three years and above but less than four years.
(d) Four years and above but less than five years.
(e) Five years only.
• Employees/Ex-employees/Ex-employees Senior Citizen and Senior Citizens are not 
eligible for preferential interest.
• Interest on FCNR (B) deposits shall be calculated and paid in the manner indicated 
below:
Page 27 of 65
(a) CBS reckons 360 days as number of days per year while calculating interest on FCNR 
(B) deposits.
(b) In case of FCNR [B] FDRs accepted for a period of exactly one year, simple interest 
is payable only on the date of maturity. In other words, in case of such FCNR [B] 
FDRs accepted for a period of one year, interest for the entire year [365 or 366 days, 
as the case may be] should be computed without any compounding effect and no 
payment of interest should be made before completion of one year from the date 
of investment.
(c) In case of FCNR [B] Fixed Deposits accepted for more than one year, simple interest 
can be paid at intervals of 180 days each and thereafter for remaining number of 
days. Hence depositors intending to draw interest at half yearly rests [i.e. at
intervals of 180 days] by way of credit to NRE / FCNR[B] / other accounts or 
remittance abroad, should be advised to keep the deposit in FCNR [B] FDR at least 
for a minimum period of 1 year + 1 day.
(d) In the case of FCNR (B) Fixed Deposits where the depositor wishes to get monthly / 
quarterly interest, the same should be paid at discounted value basis as per the 
existing norms.
(e) In case of FCNR (B) KDR accounts, interest will be paid on maturity with 
compounding effect at the interval of 180 days. 
5.20.3 Automatic Renewal of FCNR (B) Deposits:
(a) Auto renewal facility is enabled for FCNR (B) deposits with effect from 03.03.2021. 
Deposits falling due on or after this date will be renewed automatically only once 
on the date of maturity for the similar tenure, unless instruction to the contrary is 
provided by the term depositor on or before the due date. 
(b) The facility of auto-renewal of FCNR (B) deposits is restricted to single renewal only 
(i.e., auto renewal shall happen only once), as the Non-resident status of the 
depositor is to be confirmed periodically. For subsequent renewals, if any, branches 
to obtain the express authority in writing from the depositor or fresh account 
opening form.
(c) This facility will be available only for the accounts where passport is not in expired 
status.
5.20.4 Payment of interest on overdue FCNR (B) Deposits:
Overdue period (from the date of 
maturity till the date of renewal, both 
days inclusive)
FCNR (B) Deposit
Not exceeding 14 days
Branches may renew an overdue deposit 
or a portion thereof from the date of 
maturity.
The rate of interest payable on the 
amount of the deposit so renewed shall be 
the appropriate rate of interest for the 
period of renewal as prevailing on the 
Page 28 of 65
date of maturity or on the date of 
renewal, whichever is lower.
More than 14 days*
Simple interest at par with RFC SB rate for 
the respective currency prevailing on the 
date of renewal or the contracted rate of 
interest on the matured TD, whichever is 
lower.
*Where deposit is overdue for more than 14 days, renewal from date of maturity is 
not permitted. If customer requests the Bank for renewal of such overdue deposit, 
the same shall be acceded to by treating it as a fresh term deposit at the interest rate 
prevailing on the date of renewal for the period of fresh term deposit.
Note: In case, where only a portion of the overdue deposit is renewed, interest for 
the overdue period shall be paid on the amount so placed only.
5.20.5 Premature withdrawal of deposits:
1. Where the FCNR(B) deposit is to be closed before maturity before completion of the 
minimum period of deposit i.e., one year from the effective date of deposit, no 
interest is payable on such prematurely closed deposit.
Penalty on Premature withdrawal of deposits:
a. For FCNR (B) deposits opened or renewed prior to 19.11.2021:
If FCNR (B) deposit is closed before maturity on or after completion of the 
stipulated minimum period of deposit of 1 year, the rate of interest payable on 
such prematurely closed deposit shall be 1% less than the stipulated rate of 
interest applicable to FCNR (B) deposit for the period run, as ruling on the date of 
deposit.
If the applicable rate of interest for the period run is less than 1%, No interest
should be paid for premature withdrawal. 
b. For FCNR (B) deposits opened/renewed on or after 19.11.2021:
If FCNR (B) deposit is closed before maturity on or after completion of the 
stipulated minimum period of deposit of 1 year, the rate of interest payable on 
such prematurely closed deposit shall be the rate of interest applicable to FCNR 
(B) deposit for the period run, ruling as on the date of deposit or on the date of 
seeking premature withdrawal, whichever is lower.
2. If on request from the heir/s, legal representative/s or nominee/s, Bank agrees to 
split the amount of term deposit and issues two or more receipts individually in the 
name of the heir/s legal representative/s or nominees, before maturity of deposit, 
it shall not be construed as premature withdrawal of the term deposit provided the 
period and aggregate amount of the deposit do not undergo any change.
3. No penalty for premature withdrawal shall be levied, where depositors of the branch 
as mentioned in consequence of transfer of branch of one bank to another branch 
section of this policy desires premature withdrawal of deposit consequent to the 
transfer of business to another bank.
Page 29 of 65
5.20.6 Payment of interest on FCNR (B) deposits of NRIs on return to India:
➢ When the FCNR (B) account holder returns to India for permanent settlement, 
he/she shall immediately inform the branch about the change in the status. 
Branches should obtain a declaration from the account holder to the effect that 
he/she has come back to India for permanent settlement and the same is to be kept 
along with the account opening form. Persons of Indian nationality/origin, who 
return to India for permanent settlement, are having the following two options, as 
regards their FCNR (B) deposits:
a) To continue the FCNR (B) deposit till maturity at the contracted rate of interest.
NOTES:
i) Under this option, the deposit will continue as FCNR (B) with regards to provisions 
relating to rate of interest and reserve requirements. For all other purposes, such 
deposits would be treated as resident deposits from the date of return of the 
account holder to India.
ii) In case the depositor requests for premature closure of such FCNR(B) deposits 
subsequent to his/her return to India for permanent settlement, the request can 
be acceded to as advised in para 5.20.5, including instructions regarding levy of 
penal cut of interest.
iii) On maturity of such continued FCNR (B) deposit, branches should convert the same 
into either resident rupee deposit or RFC account, at the option of the account 
holder.
b) To close the existing FCNR(B) deposit before maturity [without penal cut] and 
convert the proceeds i.e., principal and interest accrued for the actual period run 
(without penal cut) into Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) account.
➢ FCNR (B) accounts cannot be re-designated as RFC accounts with retrospective 
effect. The interest payable on FCNR(B) accounts in foreign currency is applicable 
until the date of re-designation of FCNR(B) to RFC account. Thereafter, interest will 
be paid as applicable to RFC account. In other words, the rate of interest as 
applicable to RFC deposit will be payable from the date of opening of RFC deposit.
➢ In cases where the FCNR (B) deposits have not completed the minimum period of 
deposit i.e., 1 year, as on the date of conversion into RFC account as per option [b] 
above or conversion into resident rupee deposit by premature closure of the FCNR(B) 
deposit, if so desired by the depositor, interest may be paid on such FCNR(B) 
deposits at EITHER the RFC SB deposit interest rate prevailing on the date of 
conversion OR the contracted rate of interest of the FCNR(B) deposit, WHICHEVER 
IS LOWER 
➢ If the FCNR (B) deposit held in one designated currency is sought to be converted 
into another designated currency under RFC account, specific authority should be 
obtained from the depositor.
➢ If the account holders become non-residents again subsequent to conversion of FCNR 
(B) deposits into RFC account, they would be free either to transfer the balances in 
RFC account to accounts outside India or to convert such balances into NRE/FCNR 
(B) accounts in India.
Page 30 of 65
5.20.7 Interest payable on the deposit of a deceased depositor (FCNR-B Deposit):
Bank shall pay interest on the term deposits standing in the name(s) of a deceased 
FCNR(B) individual depositor or two or more joint depositors where one of the 
depositors has died, as under:
(a) If paid on the maturity of the deposit, interest shall be paid at the contracted rate;
(b) If the deposit is claimed before the maturity date, interest shall be paid not at the 
contracted rate but at the rate applicable to the period for which the deposit 
remained with the bank and without charging penalty for pre-payment;
(c) In case the depositor dies before the date of maturity of the deposit but the amount 
of the deposit is claimed after the date of maturity, interest shall be paid at the 
contracted rate till the date of maturity and simple interest at the applicable rate 
operative on the date of maturity for the period for which the deposit remained 
with the bank beyond the date of maturity.
(d) In case of death of the depositor after the date of maturity of the deposit, the 
interest rate operative on the date of maturity in respect of savings deposits held 
under Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) Account Scheme shall be paid from the date 
of maturity till the date of payment.
(e) In case the claimants are residents, the maturity proceeds shall be converted into 
Indian Rupees on the date of maturity and interest shall be paid for the subsequent 
period at the rate applicable to a domestic term deposit of similar maturity.
5.21 Consequence of transfer of branch of one Bank to another Bank:
Deposits accounts transferred from one bank branch to another bank branch on 
account of takeover of bank branches in rural and Semi-Urban centres shall adhere 
to the following conditions:
(i) Deposit accounts shall deemed to be transferred to the new bank and will 
continue to be governed by the terms of contract agreed to between the 
customer and the bank branch that is being taken over.
(ii) The same rate of interest shall be payable till maturity on such transferred 
deposits, as was payable at the time of takeover of the branch.
5.22 While opening NRE/NRO/FCNR accounts, NRI customer has to submit proof of his/her 
NRI status by submitting any of the following documents or any other suitable 
document to establish the status of NRI, in addition to Identity & Address proof:
a) Copy of Valid Work/Study Visa
b) Copy of work permit
c) Copy of Proof/certificate of residence
d) Copy of Employment /Employment Contract copy
e) Copy of Residence Permit
f) Copy of E-Visa
While converting existing Domestic Saving Bank A/c into NRO A/c, NRI customer 
should submit NRI status proof as mentioned above.
Further, in all cases of renewal of existing NRE/NRO/FCNR Term deposits, necessary 
proof as mentioned above should be obtained to establish the fact that customer 
continues to hold NRI status.
Page 31 of 65
The verification of status of NRI to be done to ensure that the customer continues 
to hold NRI status and eligible to maintain NRI account.
5.23 Joint accounts:
a. NRE SB, NRE Term Deposits and FCNR Accounts can be opened in Joint Name with 
Resident Close Relative (as defined U/S 2(77) of Indian Companies Act, 2013) on 
“Former or Survivor” basis. Money belonging to Resident Joint Account Holder 
cannot be credited into such Joint Account. Resident Joint Account Holder should 
not operate the account, unless authorized through a Letter of Authority or Power 
of Attorney.
b. NRI OPENING JOINT ACCOUNT:
✓ NRI can open joint account with other NRIs or Resident Indian Close relative as 
defined under Section 2 (77) of Indian Companies Act, 2013).
c. RESIDENT INDIAN OPENING JOINT ACCOUNT:
✓ Resident Indian can open account with Non-Resident Indian close relative, as defined 
in Section U/S 2(77) of Indian Companies Act, 2013. Operation condition is either or 
Survivor.
✓ In such Joint account funds belonging to Non Resident Indian should not be credited.
✓ Such account shall be treated as Resident Account for all purposes.
d. Addition/Deletion
Subject to complying with the FEMA regulations noted in b) and c) above, addition 
and deletion can be permitted. There is no restriction in number of persons to open 
joint account.
5.24 RESIDENT FOREIGN CURRENCY ACCOUNTS (RFC):
A person resident in India may open, hold and maintain a Foreign Currency Account, 
to be known as a Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) Account, out of foreign exchange:
(a) received as pension or any other superannuation or other monetary benefits from 
his employer outside India; or
(b) realised on conversion of the assets referred to in sub-section (4) of section 6 of 
the FEMA 1999, and repatriated to India; or
(c) received or acquired as gift or inheritance from a person referred to in sub-section 
(4) of section 6 of the FEMA 1999; or
(d) referred to in clause (c) of section 9 of the FEMA 1999, or acquired as gift or 
inheritance there from; or
(e) received as the proceeds of life insurance policy claims/ maturity/ surrender 
values settled in foreign currency from an insurance company in India permitted 
to undertake life insurance business by the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority.
Branches should verify the original passport and certify on the application that the 
details mentioned therein are correct after being satisfied that the applicant is 
eligible to open RFC account and that the funds being credited to the account 
represents eligible remittance/ proceeds. 
Page 32 of 65
DESIGNATED CURRENCIES:
RFC Accounts will be maintained in US Dollars [USD], Sterling Pounds [GBP], Euro 
[EUR], Canadian Dollars [CAD] and Australian Dollars [AUD].
Minimum Amount for Opening RFC Term Deposit (FD/KD) Account:
Currency USD GBP EUR CAD AUD
Minimum Amount 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000
There is no maximum limit.
Minimum Amount for Opening RFC Savings Bank/Current Account:
Currency USD GBP EUR CAD AUD
Minimum Amount 100 100 100 100 100
The minimum amounts of deposit in the different designated currencies for being 
eligible for payment of interest in Savings Bank account are as follows: USD: 1000, 
GBP: 1000, EUR: 1000, CAD: 1000 and AUD: 1000.
TYPES OF RFC ACCOUNTS:
RFC Accounts can be maintained in the form of Current/Savings Bank [without cheque 
book facility] and Term Deposits other than Recurring Deposit accounts. Savings Bank 
accounts cannot be opened for trade and commercial purposes. The RFC Fixed Deposit 
can be opened for a minimum period of one month and a maximum period of three 
years. In exceptional cases, where deposit is for a minimum amount of USD 250,000 
or its equivalent in other currencies, RFC FDR may also be accepted for short period 
of one week to less than one month. 
RATE OF INTEREST:
The rate of interest on RFC deposits are decided periodically by the Asset Liability 
Committee (ALCO) of the Bank, who has been delegated with such powers by the 
Board.
If branches are desirous of quoting deposits above the interest rate permitted 
by the ALCO, such proposals shall be placed before the ALCO sub-committee by 
the Integrated Treasury Wing.
The ALCO sub-committee shall be vested with delegated powers to quote 
additional interest of maximum upto 50 bps over and above the card rate. The 
rate so published shall be uniform to all the deposits with the same amount and 
tenor. 
The additional interest over card rates shall be approved by a minimum of three 
committee members out of which approval of the Executive Director overseeing 
Integrated Treasury Wing is mandatory.
Monthly consolidated note on all the proposals permitted by ALCO sub-committee 
shall be placed before the ALCO by Integrated Treasury Wing for information.
Employees/Ex-employees/Ex-Employees senior citizen of the bank and Senior Citizens 
are not eligible for preferential rate of interest of 1% on RFC deposits.
The guidelines for calculation and payment of interest for the overdue period on 
RFC term deposits are as under:
Page 33 of 65
Overdue period (from the 
date of maturity till the date 
of renewal, both days 
inclusive)
RFC Term Deposit
Not exceeding 14 days
• Overdue RFC Term Deposit can be renewed from 
the date of maturity at the interest rate 
prevailing on the date of maturity, provided the 
deposit is renewed to fall due after a period of 
not less than one month from the date of 
renewal.
• In case of renewal of individual RFC Term 
Deposits of value USD 250,000 and above or 
equivalent in other currencies, minimum period 
of renewal can be one week beyond date of 
renewal.
• Wherever the depositor opts to renew the 
deposit from the date of presentation to take 
advantage of enhanced interest rate prevailing 
on the date of presentation, same can be 
acceded to without payment of interest for the 
overdue period.
More than 14 days*
Simple interest at par with RFC SB rate for the 
respective currency prevailing on the date of 
renewal or the contracted rate of interest on the 
matured TD, whichever is lower.
*Where deposit is overdue for more than 14 days, renewal from date of maturity is 
not permitted. If customer requests the Bank for renewal of such overdue deposit, 
the same shall be acceded to by treating it as a fresh term deposit at the interest rate 
prevailing on the date of renewal for the period of fresh term deposit.]
Note: In case, where only a portion of the overdue deposit is renewed, interest for 
the overdue period shall be paid on the amount so placed only.
Premature Closure of RFC Term Deposit:
a) In the case of premature closure of the deposit, penal cut of 1% is to be levied on the 
applicable rate of interest for the period for which the deposit has actually run, as 
ruling on the date of deposit. 
If the applicable rate of interest for the period run is less than 1%, No interest should 
be paid for closure before maturity. 
b) Extension of period of RFC Term Deposits during the tenure of the deposit for a period 
longer than the balance period is permitted without applying penal cut of 1%. The 
minimum/maximum period of the extended deposit from the date of extension, shall 
be minimum period of one month and a maximum period of 3 years.
If the extended deposit is closed before the original due date, levy of 1% penalty is to 
be applied from the date of opening of the deposit itself.
5.25 RESIDENT FOREIGN CURRENCY (DOMESTIC) ACCOUNT [RFCD]:
A resident individual may open an RFC(D) account to retain in a bank account in India 
the foreign exchange acquired in the form of currency notes, bank notes and travellers 
cheques from overseas sources such as:
Page 34 of 65
a. payment while on a visit abroad for services not arising from any business or anything 
done in India;
b. honorarium or gift or for services rendered or in settlement of any lawful obligation 
from any person not resident in India and who is on a visit to India;
c. honorarium or gift while on a visit to any place outside India;
d. gift from a relative;
e. unspent foreign exchange acquired from an authorised person for travel abroad;
f. representing the disinvestment proceeds received by the resident account holder on 
conversion of shares held by him to ADRs/ GDRs under the 10DR Scheme, 2014;
g. by way of earnings received as the proceeds of life insurance policy claims/ 
maturity/ surrender values settled in foreign currency from an insurance company 
in India permitted to undertake life insurance business by the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority
Balances received in RFCD Current Account during a calendar month shall be 
converted into INR on the last working day of next month after adjusting for utilization
of the balances for approved purposes or forward commitments.
Balances may be credited to NRE/ FCNR (B) Accounts, at the option/ request of the 
account holder consequent upon change of their residential status from resident to 
non-resident.
TYPE OF ACCOUNT:
Current Account only. Operation by authority letter and no cheque book shall be 
issued.
While accepting Foreign Currency Notes for the credit to RFC/RFCD, Bank shall collect 
from the Customer the difference between the rupee equivalent of the foreign 
currency amount of the FC notes at FC Note Buying rate and TT selling Rate.
RFC Accounts can be held singly or jointly in the names of eligible persons. However, 
resident Indian close relative/s (as defined U/S 2(77) of Indian Companies Act, 2013) 
is/are now being made eligible to become joint holder/s in RFC bank accounts on 
'former or survivor' basis. Such accounts shall attain the status of an ordinary resident 
account if the resident close relative becomes the sole account holder at a later date.
5.26 CRYSTALLISATION OF INOPERATIVE FOREIGN CURRENCY DEPOSITS
a. In case a foreign currency denominated deposit with a fixed maturity date 
(Term Deposits) remains inoperative for a period of three years from the date 
of maturity of the deposit, at the end of the third year, branches/offices shall 
convert the balances lying in the foreign currency denominated deposit into 
Indian Rupee at the exchange rate prevailing as on that date. Thereafter, the 
depositor shall be entitled to claim either the said Indian Rupee proceeds and 
interest thereon, if any, or the foreign currency equivalent (calculated at the 
rate prevalent as on the date of payment) of the Indian Rupee proceeds of the 
original deposit and interest, if any, on such Indian Rupee proceeds.
b. In case of foreign currency denominated deposit with no fixed maturity period 
(Savings/Current Deposits), if the deposit remains inoperative for a period of 
three years (debit of bank charges not to be reckoned as operation), 
branches/offices shall, after giving a three month notice to the depositor at his 
last known address as available with it, convert the deposit from the foreign 
currency in which it is denominated to Indian Rupee at the end of the notice 
Page 35 of 65
period at the prevailing exchange rate. Thereafter, the depositor shall be 
entitled to claim either the said Indian Rupee proceeds and interest thereon, if 
any, or the foreign currency equivalent (calculated at the rate prevalent as on 
the date of payment) of the Indian Rupee proceeds of the original deposit and 
interest, if any, on such Indian Rupee proceeds.
Branches/Offices shall adhere to the operational guidelines for handling 
crystallisation of inoperative foreign currency deposits contained in the latest 
BPC-MOI Non-Resident and Other Foreign Currency Deposits.
5.27 OPENING OF ACCOUNTS BY BANK’S UNITS ABROAD (BRANCHES ABROAD AND 
EXCHANGE COMPANIES MANAGED BY OUR BANK AND REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE:
a) Applications for opening of Non-Resident accounts are accepted in our Bank’s 
branches abroad, Representative Office/s and Musandam Exchange, Oman.
b) After scrutiny of AOF including KYC documents and satisfying that the AOF is 
complete in all aspects and NRE SB/NRO SB account can be opened, the Official 
(who should be an Officer of the Canara Bank not less than Scale II on deputation to 
the Exchange Company, Branch/Representative Office abroad) should sign in full 
“Accepted to open the Account” column in the AOF; duly mentioning his/her Signing 
Power Number.
c) Account opening forms can be downloaded from our Bank’s Website.
5.28 ACCOUNT OPENING FORM FOR ALL NRE ACCOUNTS 
For opening of NRE SB accounts, our Branches abroad and Exchange Companies abroad 
can also be approached. The required application, KYC/AML documents, 
Identity/Address proof and photo are to be submitted and on satisfactory processing 
of the application and enclosures, a Welcome Kit shall be issued to the customer 
containing Cheque Book and Non-Personalized ATM/Debit Card.
5.29 SPECIAL NON RESIDENT RUPEE (SNRR) ACCOUNT:
a. A person resident outside India, having a business interest in India, may open a 
Special Non-Resident Rupee Account (SNRR account) with an authorised dealer in 
India or its branch outside India for the purpose of putting through permissible 
current and capital account transactions with a person resident in India in 
accordance with the Act, rules and regulations framed under the Act, and for 
putting through any transaction with a person resident outside India.,
Explanation: A unit in an International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) under 
section 18 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 may open an SNRR account 
with an authorised dealer in India (outside IFSC) for its business-related 
transactions outside IFSC.
b. The SNRR account shall carry the nomenclature of the specific business for which 
it is in operation and shall not earn any interest. A bank may, at its discretion, 
maintain separate SNRR account for each category of transactions or a single 
SNRR Account for a person resident outside India engaged in multiple categories 
of transactions provided it is able to identify/segregate and account them 
category-wise.
Page 36 of 65
c. The debits/ credits and the balances in the account shall be incidental and 
commensurate with the business operations of the account holder.
d. Authorised Dealers shall ensure that all the operations in the SNRR account are 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations made 
thereunder.
e. The tenure of the SNRR account should be concurrent to the tenure of the 
contract/ period of operation/ the business of the account holder.
f. The operations in the SNRR account shall not result in the account holder making 
available foreign exchange to any person resident in India against 
reimbursement in rupees or in any other manner.
g. The balances in the SNRR account in India shall be eligible for repatriation. 
Transfers from any NRO account to the SNRR account are prohibited.
h. All transactions in the SNRR account in India will be subject to payment of 
applicable taxes in India.
i. SNRR account maintained in India may be designated as resident rupee account 
on the account holder becoming a resident.
j. The amount due/ payable to non-resident nominee from the SNRR account in India 
of a deceased account holder, shall be credited to NRO/NRE account of the 
nominee with an authorised dealer/ authorised bank in India or by remittance 
through normal banking channels.
k. Opening of SNRR accounts by Pakistan and Bangladesh nationals and entities 
incorporated in Pakistan and Bangladesh requires prior approval of Reserve 
Bank.
5.30 Exchange Earner's Foreign Currency Account – EEFC Account
A Person resident in India may open an EEFC account with an AD in India as per the 
conditions stipulated in Schedule I to FEMA 10(R). 
5.30.1 The credits permitted to this account are:
a. 100 percent of the foreign exchange earnings by way of inward remittance through 
normal banking channel, (other than loans or investments);
b. payments received for the purpose of counter trade;
c. advance remittance received by an exporter towards export of goods or services;
d. professional earnings including director’s fees, consultancy fees, lecture fees, 
honorarium and similar other earnings received by a professional by rendering 
services in his individual capacity;
e. interest earned on the funds held in the account;
f. Re-credit of unutilized foreign currency earlier withdrawn from the account;
g. repayment of trade related loans/ advances (which were granted to the account 
holder's importer customer out of balances held in the EEFC accounts);
Page 37 of 65
h. disinvestment proceeds received by the resident account holder on conversion of 
shares held by him to ADRs/ GDRs under the 7DR Scheme, 2014; and
i. Payments received in foreign exchange by an Indian startup arising out of sales/ 
export made by the startup or its overseas subsidiaries.
5.30.2 The debits allowed in these accounts are:
a. Payment outside India towards capital or current account transactions in accordance 
with the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management (Permissible Capital Account 
Transactions) Regulations, 2000 or Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account 
Transactions) Rules, 2000, respectively;
b. payment in foreign exchange towards cost of goods purchased from a 100 percent 
Export Oriented Unit or a Unit in an Export Processing Zone/ Software Technology 
Park/ Electronic Hardware Technology Park;
c. payment of customs duty in accordance with the provisions of Export Import Policy;
d. trade related loans/ advances, by an exporter account holder to his importer 
customer outside India, subject to complying the provisions of FEMA and the rules/ 
regulations made thereunder;
e. payment in foreign exchange to a person resident in India for supply of goods/ 
services including payments for air fare and hotel expenditure.
5.30.3 The salient features of the scheme are:
a. Withdrawal in rupees is permitted from this account, provided the amount so 
withdrawn cannot be re-credited to the account.
b. The account will be in the form of a non-interest bearing account.
c. The claims settled in rupees by ECGC/ insurance companies should not be construed 
as export realisation in foreign exchange and the claim amount will not be an eligible 
credit to the EEFC account.
d. The sum total of the accruals in the account during a calendar month should be 
converted into Rupees on or before the last day of the succeeding calendar month 
after adjusting for utilization of the balances for approved purposes or forward 
commitments.
e. Fund-based/ non-fund based credit facilities should not be granted against the 
balances held in EEFC Accounts.
f. Exporters can repay packing credit advances, whether availed of in Rupee or in 
foreign currency, from balances in their EEFC account to the extent exports have 
actually taken place.
g. Balances held in the account may be credited to NRE/ FCNR (B) Accounts, at the 
option/ request of the account holders consequent upon change of their residential 
status from resident to non-resident.
5.31 Diamond Dollar Account Scheme – DDA Account
Firms and companies which comply with the eligibility criteria stipulated in the Foreign 
Trade Policy of the Government of India may open DDA accounts, details of which are 
laid down in Schedule II of FEMA 10(R), as amended from time to time, with an AD in 
India. The salient features of the Scheme are:
a. Realisation of export proceeds and local sales (in USD) of rough, cut, polished 
diamonds; and pre and post shipment finance availed in USD can be credited to such 
account.
Page 38 of 65
b. Payments for purchase of rough, cut and polished diamonds can be made from DDA 
account. Funds can also be transferred to rupee account of the exporter.
c. The account should be maintained in the form of a non-interest bearing current 
account.
d. The sum total of the accruals in the account during a calendar month should be 
converted into Rupees on or before the last day of the succeeding calendar month 
after adjusting for utilization of the balances for approved purposes or forward 
commitments.
5.32 FCY account by a Unit in a Special Economic Zone (SEZ)
A unit located in a Special Economic Zone may open hold and maintain a Foreign 
Currency Account with an authorized dealer in India provided that,
a. all foreign exchange funds received by the unit in the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) 
are credited to such account,
b. no foreign exchange purchased in India against rupees shall be credited to the 
account without prior permission from the Reserve Bank,
c. the funds held in the account shall be used for bona fide trade transactions of the 
unit in the SEZ with the person resident in India or otherwise,
d. the balances in the accounts shall be exempt from the restrictions imposed under 
Rule 5, except item 1(ii) of the Schedule III, of the Government of India Notification 
No.GSR.381(E) dated May 3, 2000, as amended from time to time.
Provided that the funds held in these accounts shall not be lent or made available in 
any manner to any person or entity resident in India not being a unit in Special Economic 
Zones.
6. GENERAL GUIDELINES
6.1 JOINT ACCOUNTS:
Deposit accounts can be opened by an individual in his/her own name or by more than 
one individual in their joint names. There is no restriction in number of persons to open 
joint account. Any person competent to contract /who need not necessarily be the 
parent of the Minor may deposit the money belonging to him/her in his/her name jointly 
with a Minor. However, the Minor in such cases should be duly represented by his/her 
natural Guardian or in the absence, a Guardian appointed by a competent Court only.
6.2 OPERATIONS OF JOINT ACCOUNT:
The mandate for operating the account can be modified with the consent of all the 
joint account holders. In case of SB account opened by minor jointly with the natural 
guardian, the operations are allowed by the natural guardian only.
6.3 TRANSFER OF ACCOUNTS:
Current Account, SB, Term Deposits may be transferred from one Branch to another 
Branch within the Bank at the request of the account holders subject to certain 
conditions.
KYC once done by one Branch of a Bank is valid for transfer of the account within the 
Bank as long as full KYC has been complied for the concerned account. The Customer 
is allowed to transfer his/her account from one Branch to another Branch without 
restrictions. Along with the fresh address proof, the customer is required to submit 2 
latest photographs (for accounts opened prior to 01.01.1994) to the transferee branch.
Page 39 of 65
A customer is required to submit Officially Valid Documents (OVDs) as a part of 
KYC procedure as elaborated in Para 3.1.3.
In case, Officially Valid Documents (OVDs) furnished by the customer does not contain 
updated address, the documents (mentioned in point no.3.1.4 shall be deemed to the 
OVDs for the limited purpose of proof of address. 
The updated Officially Valid Document with current address is to be submitted within 
a period of three months of submitting the above document. 
Transfer of Term Deposits (Retail Term Deposit only) from one Branch to other 
Branch:
i. Transferor Branches can permit transfer of deposits in the same 
city/town/municipal area during the currency of deposit, based on the 
customer’s request.
ii. The discretion for permitting transfer of term deposits from one branch to 
another branch outside the City/ Town/ Municipal area for deposits above Rs. 
5 Lakhs or above US $10000/- in FCNR, is now vested with respective Transferor 
Branch.
6.4 ADDITION OF NAMES:
The Bank may at the request of the depositor/s allow addition of name/s in Savings 
Bank, Current Account & Term deposits. Deletion in name/s of depositor/s is also 
permitted, subject to the condition that one of the original depositors should continue 
to be a depositor.
6.5 CHANGE IN RATE OF INTEREST:
The rate of interest on deposits will be prominently displayed in the branch premises 
apart from placing the same on our Bank’s website.
The changes, if any, with regard to the deposit schemes and other related services shall 
also be communicated upfront and shall be prominently displayed. The same may also 
be published in newspaper.
6.6 WITHDRAWAL OF CASH:
Payment of cash up to Rs. 50,000/- per occasion in Savings Bank and Current Account 
is to be extended only to the drawer against self cheques, at all host branches (i.e. 
other than the base branch). Cash payment to third parties will be extended at base 
branch only.
6.7 VALIDITY OF CHEQUES/DRAFTS/PAY ORDERS/BANKER’S CHEQUES:
As per RBI guidelines, w.e.f. April 1, 2012, Banks should not make payment of 
Cheques/Drafts/Pay Orders/Banker's Cheques bearing that date or any subsequent 
date, if they are presented beyond the period of three months from the date of such 
instrument.
6.8 PROHIBITION IN ALTERATIONS/CORRECTIONS ON CHEQUES:
As per RBI guidelines, no changes/corrections should be carried out on the cheques 
(other than for date validation purposes, if required). For any change in the payee’s 
name, courtesy amount (amount in figures), or legal amount (amount in words) etc., 
fresh cheque forms should be used by the customers.
Page 40 of 65
6.9 PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND WARRANTS/INTEREST WARRANTS :
Signature of the payee on the reverse of the Dividend warrant/Interest Warrant is not 
needed where such instruments have special crossing “Not Negotiable/Not 
Transferable/Account Payee/Beneficiary Banks’ name and the Account Number” etc.
6.10 CUSTOMER INFORMATION:
The customer information collected from the customers shall not be used for cross 
selling of services/products by the Bank, subsidiaries & affiliates. If the Bank proposes 
to use such information, it shall be with the consent of the account holder/s.
6.11 SECRECY OF THE CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS:
The Bank shall not disclose details/ particulars of the customer’s accounts to a third 
person or party without the expressed or implied consent from the customer. However, 
there are some exceptions viz. Disclosure of information under compulsion of law, 
where there is a duty towards the public to disclose and where interest of the Bank 
requires disclosure.
6.12 INOPERATIVE ACCOUNTS:
A savings/ current account shall be treated as inoperative, if there are no ‘customer 
induced transactions’ in the account for a period of over two years.
For the purpose of classifying an account as ‘inoperative’, only customer induced 
transactions and not bank induced transactions shall be considered. 
A. Customer induced transaction:
i) A financial transaction initiated by or done at the behest of the account holder 
by the Bank/ third party or;
ii) A Non-financial transaction or;
iii) KYC updation done in face-to-face physical mode or through digital channels 
such as internet banking or mobile banking application of the Bank.
Financial transaction- A monetary transaction in the savings/ current account of 
the customer with the Bank either by way of a credit or debit transaction.
List of Financial transactions are as followsa) ATM/ Cash withdrawal/ deposit.
b) RTGS / NEFT/ IMPS /UPI/ AEPS/ ABPS Transactions.
c) Internet Banking Transactions.
d) Debit Card Transactions.
e) Transfer of funds from / to the linked CBDC(e-Rupee) account.
f) Cheque Clearing.
g) Remittance of funds by way of demand drafts.
h) Cash withdrawal by third party through cheque.
i) Standing Instructions issued by the customer.
j) NACH Debit / Credits.
Page 41 of 65
k) Term Deposit Interest / proceeds.
l) Dividend on shares/Interest on Debentures or any other investment 
proceeds.
m) Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) credits.
n) Refunds like refunds related to e-commerce payments, Income Tax Returns, 
etc.
o) National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) debits.
Note: There may be instances where the customer has given a mandate like 
Standing Instructions (SI)/ auto-renewal instructions and there are no other 
operations in the Savings /Current account or the Term Deposit. These 
transactions shall also be treated as customer induced transactions.
List of Non-financial transactions –
An enquiry or request for any product/service initiated by the account holder 
through:
a) ATM.
b) Internet banking.
c) Mobile banking application of the bank.
d) Third Party Application Providers, which requires two factor authentication 
(2FA) and leaves a trail for audit purposes.
Successful log-in to the internet banking/ mobile banking application which 
includes:
i. Change in transaction limit.
ii. Request for issue of cheque book/ credit card/ debit card.
iii. Nomination facility.
iv. Balance enquiry.
B) Bank induced transaction:
Transactions in the account initiated by the bank as per its extant policy such as 
charges, fees, interest payments, penalties, taxes.
List of Bank induced transactions as follows:
a) All types of charges levied by banks including taxes deducted.
b) Savings Bank account interests.
6.12.1 Review of inoperative accounts:
Bank shall undertake at least an annual review in respect of accounts, where there 
is no customer induced transactions for more than a year. 
Bank shall inform the account holders in writing through letters or email or SMS (if 
the email and mobile number are registered with the bank) that there has been no 
operation in their accounts in the last one year, as the case may be. 
The alert messages shall invariably mention that the account would become 
‘inoperative’ if no operations are carried out during the next one year and, the 
account holder would be required to submit KYC documents afresh for reactivating 
the account in such case. 
Page 42 of 65
If the letters are returned undelivered or no response is received through registered 
email, the Branch shall immediately undertake an enquiry to find out the 
whereabouts of account holder or his/her nominee/legal heirs in case the account 
holder is deceased.
In case any response is received from the account holder giving the reasons for not 
operating the account, the Bank shall continue to classify the account as operative 
for one more year and the account holder shall be advised to operate the account 
within a period of one year (herein after referred to as ‘extended period’). In case 
the account holder still fails to operate the account within the extended period, 
the Bank shall classify the said account as inoperative account after the expiry of 
the extended period. Extended period has to be considered within the overall 
time limit of two years. 
The classification of an account as inoperative shall be for a particular account of 
the customer and not with reference to the customer. In case a customer is 
maintaining multiple accounts with a bank, all such accounts shall be assessed 
individually for the purpose of classifying them as inoperative account, as the case 
may be.
In case the account holder is not carrying out transaction and the account is -
inoperative due to shifting of primary account to another bank, the account holder 
may be requested to provide the details of the new bank account with authorisation 
to enable the bank to transfer the balance from the existing bank account.
In case the balance in an inoperative account is less than Rs.20/-, account will be 
closed if there is no account revival from the depositor after the notice is sent by 
the Bank.
6.12.2 Treatment of accounts opened for credit of scholarship amount and credit of 
Direct Benefit Transfer under Government Schemes:
Bank is required to classify all Savings and Current accounts as inoperative if 
there are no Customer induced transactions in the account for a period of more 
than two years irrespective of the purpose for which account is opened.
Note: No exemption is provided to any type of accounts from the purview of 
inoperative accounts.
6.12.3 Segregation and Audit of Inoperative Accounts:
The segregation of inoperative accounts is required to be done to reduce the risk 
of frauds. The transactions in inoperative accounts, which have been reactivated, 
shall be monitored regularly, for at least six months, at higher levels (RO/CO) 
without the knowledge and notice of the customers and the dealing staff.
Bank shall ensure that amounts lying in inoperative accounts and reactivated 
inoperative accounts, are subjected to concurrent audit.
6.12.4 Tracing of Customers of Inoperative Accounts:
Bank shall contact the holder(s) of the inoperative account through letters, email 
or SMS (if the email and mobile number are registered with the Bank). The email/ 
SMS shall be sent on a quarterly basis.
In case the whereabouts of the holder(s) of the inoperative account are not 
traceable, Bank shall contact the introducer, if any, who had introduced the 
Page 43 of 65
account holder to the Bank at the time of opening of the account. Bank shall also 
contact the nominee, if registered, for tracing the customer.
Bank shall undertake special drives periodically to find out the whereabouts of the 
customers, their nominees or legal heirs in respect of inoperative accounts.
6.12.5 Activation of Inoperative accounts:
While activating Inoperative Accounts, Branches are required to obtain request 
letter from the account holders, ensure KYC compliance, Customer due diligence, 
etc. as per extant guidelines.
Bank shall make available the facility of updation of KYC for activation of 
inoperative accounts at all Branches (including non-home branches) and through 
Video-Customer Identification Process (V-CIP) if requested by the account holder, 
subject to the facility of V-CIP being provided by the Bank.
Branches shall activate the inoperative accounts, including those which are under 
freeze by orders of various agencies like Courts, Tribunals, Law Enforcement 
Agencies, only after adhering to the KYC guidelines such as Customer Due Diligence 
(CDD), customer identification, risk categorization.
Branches shall ensure that activation of inoperative account in CBS necessarily 
requires second level of authorisation by another officer at the same or higher level 
(i.e., through maker and checker).
System logs shall invariably be maintained in case of any activity in or activation of 
inoperative accounts for concurrent audit purpose. The preservation period of such 
system logs shall be as per the internal guidelines of the Bank.
Bank shall automatically intimate the inoperative account holders though SMS and 
registered email stating that on the basis of the KYC documents submitted by them, 
the inoperative status of the account has been removed. The intimation shall also 
mention the remedial measures available to them to report unauthorised access, if 
any. 
This would alert the account holder against any possible fraudulent activity in 
his/her inoperative account. The Bank shall have in place adequate operational 
safeguards to ensure that the claimants in case of inoperative accounts are 
genuine. Branches shall process requests for activation of inoperative account
within three working days from the receipt of the complete application.
6.12.6 Payment of Interest:
Interest on savings accounts shall be credited on a regular basis irrespective of the 
fact that the account is in operation or not.
6.12.7 Levy of charges:
a) Bank shall not levy penal charges for non-maintenance of minimum balances 
in any account that is classified as an inoperative account.
b) No charges shall be levied for activation of inoperative accounts.
6.12.8 Fraud Risk Management in Inoperative Accounts:
The Bank shall not allow any debit transaction in an inoperative account unless 
there is a customer induced activation as per the procedure mentioned in Para 
6.12.5.
Page 44 of 65
While activating Inoperative Accounts, Branches are required to obtain request 
letter from the account holders, ensure KYC compliance, Customer due diligence, 
etc. as per extant guidelines.
All credits are permissible in inoperative/dormant accounts without changing the 
account status. 
However, while allowing withdrawals due diligence should be ensured by the 
Branches by ensuring the genuineness of transactions, verification of signature and 
identity, etc.
In order to mitigate risk of frauds in accounts which are made operative from 
inoperative status, Bank has imposed a cooling period of one day on 
reactivation with restrictions on the debit transactions in such accounts. The 
Board delegates power to ORMC for approving any modification of operating 
guidelines in this regard. Under exceptional circumstances, Circle Head is 
empowered to waive cooling period on case-to-case basis on the 
recommendation of Regional Head.
The Bank shall ensure that there is no unauthorised access to customer data 
pertaining to the inoperative accounts. The Bank shall also ensure that adequate 
steps are taken to prevent data theft and related misuse for fraudulent purposes.
6.12.9 General Guidelines:
The information on the process for activation of an inoperative account shall be 
made available on the website as well as at the Branches.
Necessary documents are to be made available for the benefit of customers.
a) The Bank shall conduct public awareness and financial literacy campaigns 
regularly to educate the members of public about the activation of inoperative 
accounts.
b) The depositor will be informed of charges, if any, which the Bank will levy on 
dormant/ inoperative accounts.
c) In case of Operative Accounts, an account shall be classified as “Unclaimed 
Deposits” if the same is not operated (other than interest credits and service 
charge debits) for 10 years and more from the date of last operation. In case of 
term deposit account, it shall be classified as unclaimed deposit if the same is 
not renewed/withdrawn after 10 years or more from the date of maturity.
d) Pursuant to the amendment of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, section 26A has 
been inserted in the Act, empowering Reserve Bank to establish The Depositor 
Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF Fund). Under the provisions of this section 
the amount to the credit of any account in India with any bank which has not 
been operated upon for a period of ten years or any deposit or any amount 
remaining unclaimed for more than ten years shall be credited to the fund, with 
in a period of three months from the expiry of the said period of ten years.
6.13 STOP PAYMENT FACILITY:
The Bank will accept stop payment instructions from the depositors in respect of 
cheques issued by them. Charges as specified will be recovered.
Page 45 of 65
6.14 MANDATE / POWER OF ATTORNEY
At the request of the depositor, the Bank will register mandate/ power of attorney 
given by him authorizing another person to operate the account on his behalf.
6.15 DISHONOUR OF CHEQUES 
Cheques drawn on a branch is passed if everything is in order and there are sufficient 
funds. Payment of cheques drawn on a branch is refused in the following circumstances:
6.15.1 A cheque is presented for payment before its ostensible date.
6.15.2 Cheque which is drawn is in irregular or ambiguous manner or in a form of doubtful 
legality.
6.15.3 If the amount standing in credit is not sufficient to cover the whole amount of the 
cheque or if the overdraft limit is exceeded.
6.15.4 Cheques are drawn beyond the arranged limit.
6.15.5 If the funds of the customer are not properly applicable to the payment of the 
cheque.
6.15.6 Where there is a legal bar on payment.
6.15.7 Where payment of cheque has been stopped by the drawer.
6.15.8 Where there is notice of customer's death.
6.15.9 Where a customer becomes insolvent and an order of adjudication is made.
6.15.10 A cheque presented through post by an unknown payee other than bank.
6.15.11 If the cheque is not duly presented i.e., has not been presented within banking hours.
6.15.12 If the cheque is not presented within the validity period of the cheque.
6.15.13 If the Bank has not been given reasonable time to have the funds placed into the 
credit of the customer's account before they can be drawn against.
6.15.14 Where endorsements are not in order in the case of 'Order' cheques.
6.15.15 Where there is no endorsement of the payee in an Order Cheque, or the collecting 
Banker's confirmation.
6.15.16 When the signature of the drawer differs from the specimen lodged.
6.15.17 Where the drawer signs on behalf of a firm or a company and the name of the 
company is not mentioned.
6.15.18 Where the cheque form used is not from among the cheque leaves issued to the 
party.
6.15.19 When a crossed cheque is presented by a party other than a banker.
6.15.20 Where there are material alterations in the cheque unauthorized by the drawer. RBI 
has directed that the drawer can authorize material alteration only for the date of 
the cheque.
6.15.21 Where the cheque contains extraneous matter.
6.15.22 Any other reason for which Bank deem fit to refuse the payment.
6.16 PAYMENT OF ADDITIONAL INTEREST ON DOMESTIC DEPOSIT:
In tune with RBI guidelines, preferential rate of interest [1% p.a. over and above the 
applicable rates] to be paid only on deposits standing in the name/s of the following 
categories of employees:
a) An employee of the Bank [confirmed or probationary] either singly or jointly with 
any other member or members of his/her family.
Page 46 of 65
b) The Chairman/ Chairman & Managing Director/ MD & CEO/ Executive Director or 
such other Executives appointed for a fixed tenure during tenure and till the 
maturity of term deposit. Preferential Rate, after their tenure, shall also be 
extended, if they have superannuated / are eligible to draw pension / retirement 
benefits from our Bank.
c) An employee of our Bank, who has been deputed outside or elsewhere.
d) A Part-Time Employee who has been given staff number.
e) A retired employee [including an employee who has voluntarily retired] either 
singly or jointly with any other member or members of his/her family.
f) Workmen employees who have opted for pension under Regulation 29 of the 
Pension Regulation and resigned under “Scheme of Voluntary Retirement” putting 
in not less than 20 years of active unblemished service.
g) Workmen employees, who have completed 25 years of active unblemished service 
and resigned.
h) Officer employees who have served the Bank for a period of not less than 20 years 
of active unblemished service and resigned under “Scheme of Voluntary 
Retirement”.
i) Officer employees who have served the Bank for a period not less than 25 years 
[active service] and with an unblemished record, but resigned from the services 
of the Bank prior to introduction of “Scheme of Voluntary Retirement” mentioned 
in Circular No.160/86 dated 24/04/1986.
j) The spouse of a deceased employee in his/her single name.
k) The spouse of a deceased retired employee in his/her single name.
l) The spouse of a deceased ex-employee/Officer mentioned in points f, g, h and I 
above.
m) An Association or a Fund, all members of which are our Bank employees.
n) A person employed on a contract of a specified duration is eligible for a 
preferential rate of interest on his/her deposits till the expiry of the term of 
contract.
o) An employee taken over in pursuance of any scheme of amalgamation is eligible 
for preferential rate of interest on his/her deposits. However, in such cases, the 
additional interest shall be allowed only if the interest at the contracted rate 
together with the additional interest does not exceed the rate which would have 
been allowed if such employees were originally employed by the Bank.
In all cases of joint deposits where our employee is one of the depositors, he/she should 
invariably be the first named depositor in order to be eligible for preferential rate of 
interest and a declaration is given to the effect that the money deposited belongs to 
him/her.
For the purpose of joint deposits, the word “family” would mean and include:
➢ The spouse of the employee/retired employee.
➢ The children, parents, brothers and sisters of the employee/retired employee, 
who are dependent on such employee/retired employee.
However, the word “family” would not include a legally separated spouse.
Page 47 of 65
The following types of deposits are not eligible for preferential rate of interest:
i) NRE, FCNR and RFC term deposits.
ii) Deposits made jointly with others (other than family members as defined above).
iii) Deposits of employees on contract.
iv) Deposits of ineligible ex-employees and their widows.
v) Deposits of employees who have resigned [other than mentioned in points 6.16 (f), 
(g), (h) and (i) above] or who have been terminated.
vi) Deposits of dismissed employees/compulsorily retired employees as a sequel to 
disciplinary action.
vii) Deposits of temporary employees.
viii) A person employed on deputation is eligible for preferential rate of interest on 
his/her deposits. However, this benefit shall cease to accrue on the expiry of the 
term of deputation, in the case of persons taken on deputation for a fixed 
duration.
ix) The additional interest shall be payable only so long as the person continues to be
eligible for the same and in case of his ceasing to be so eligible, till the maturity 
of the deposit in the case of term deposit account. This provision leads to the 
following explanations:
(a) The benefit of additional interest cannot be extended to the term deposits 
[including Recurring Deposits] placed with the Bank by the depositor, even if 
he/she becomes an employee of the Bank during the currency of the deposit. 
(b) The benefit of additional interest can continue to be extended till the maturity 
of a term deposit account [including Recurring Deposits] even if the depositoremployee ceases to be employee of the Bank during the currency of the deposit.
In both the above cases, contracted rate of interest shall continue to be extended 
till the maturity without incorporating any change in the interest rate during the 
currency of the deposit account.
x) In the case of an individual Minor’s account, employee would be signing only as a 
guardian and hence it is not eligible for preferential rate of interest. Only if the 
employee is a party to the deposit as a joint depositor, and on his/her giving the 
prescribed declaration to the effect that the amount deposited belongs to 
him/her, the account is eligible for preferential rate of interest.
In respect of all deposits eligible for preferential rate of interest, a declaration to 
the effect that the monies deposited belong to the employee/s should be obtained 
without fail for each fresh eligible fixed deposit. 
In the following cases, declaration need not be obtained, provided however, the 
declaration has already been obtained for the original/previous deposit or for the 
operative account of the concerned employee:
i. Renewal of an overdue deposit [only if the amount renewed is the same as the 
amount of previous deposit besides accrued interest].
ii. Extension of period of the deposit [provided no additional amount other than 
interest accrued is accepted].
iii. The deposit is opened by transfer of funds from the operative account of the 
employee concerned.
Where, however, the amount of deposit is inclusive of an additional amount besides the 
amount of original/previous deposit and interest accrued thereon, a fresh declaration 
should be obtained from the employee concerned.
Page 48 of 65
In respect of deposits in joint names, the declaration should be obtained from the 
depositor eligible to get the benefit of preferential rate of interest. If all the joint 
depositors are eligible employees, all should sign the declaration.
6.17 System level restriction has been enabled to prevent credit of term deposit closure 
proceeds to GL, wherever operative account exists for the Term Deposit Holder (Except 
in case of Death Claim Settlements & PFMS accounts) to mitigate Operational Risk. 
Under exceptional circumstances, Circle Head is empowered to permit credit of 
term deposit closure proceeds to GL on case-to-case basis on the recommendation 
of Regional Head based on merits. However, the same may not be exercised as a 
matter of routine.
7. NOMINATION
7.1 Nomination facility is available for all deposits held by individuals in their own 
capacity, singly or jointly.
7.2 Nomination facility is also available to a sole proprietorship account.
7.3 Nomination can be made in favour of one individual only.
7.4 Nomination so made can be cancelled or changed by the account holder/s anytime 
during which the deposit is held by the Bank to the credit of the depositor.
7.5 Fresh nomination shall not be asked if the fixed deposits are renewed.
7.6 Nomination can be made in favour of a Minor also, for which date of birth of the 
Minor and full details of the Guardian are to be furnished. 
7.7 Bank recommends that all the depositors avail nomination facility. The nominee in 
the event of death of the depositor/s could receive the balance outstanding in the 
account as a trustee of legal heirs.
7.8 The facility for updation of nominee is also available online through Internet & 
Mobile Banking for the deposit accounts.
In order to serve the purpose of the bereaved family members, who are forced to go 
through long drawn proceedings in the court for claiming the amount, which lawfully 
belongs to them, RBI has directed the Banks generally to insist that the person opening 
a deposit account makes a nomination.
In case the person opening an account declines to nominate any other persons, the 
branch shall explain the advantages of nomination facility. If the person opening the 
account still does not want to nominate, the branch shall obtain a specific letter to the 
effect that he/she does not want to make a nomination. In case the depositor declines 
to give such a letter, the branch shall record the fact on the account opening form and 
proceed with opening of the account if otherwise the depositor satisfies all other 
eligibility criteria.
8. INSURANCE COVER FOR DEPOSITS
All bank deposits are covered under the Insurance Scheme of Deposit and Credit 
Guarantee Corporation of India (DICGC) subject to certain limits and conditions. The 
details of insurance cover in force will be made available to the depositor. 
9. SPECIAL TYPES OF ACCOUNTS
9.1 ACCOUNTS OF MINOR:
A savings /fixed / recurring bank deposit account can be opened by a Minor of 
any age through his/her natural or legally appointed guardian.
According to the Indian Majority Act, a Minor is one who has not completed 18 years 
of age. In terms of Indian Contract Act, the contracting parties should be necessarily 
Page 49 of 65
major, for the validity of the contracts. Hence, any contract with the Minor is void 
ab-initio. Since the opening of the account forms contractual obligation between 
Banker & Customer, savings bank account in the individual capacity of the Minor will 
not be opened. However, there are exceptions to this rule.
Cheques issued by the Guardian prior to the date on which the Minor attains 
majority, but presented after the above date, are to be treated as invalid.
On attaining majority, fresh set of application form with the specimen 
signature card and photograph of the erstwhile Minor, duly countersigned by 
the Guardian, would be obtained as in the case of new accounts.
9.2 ACCOUNTS IN THE NAME OF MINOR WHO IS ABOVE THE AGE OF 10 YEARS:
Minors above the age of 10 years, will be allowed to open and operate savings 
bank account independently with the following terms and conditions:
i. These accounts are to be opened under Product Code 120 (SB Junior) for 
Minors above the age of 10 years & less than 18 years.
ii. Minors who have attained 17 years of age can also open accounts under 
Canara Aspire.
iii. KYC norms & due diligence of Minor & Guardian should be ensured while 
opening these accounts. Proof of Date of Birth of the Minor has to be 
mandatorily obtained & verified.
iv. A declaration-cum-no objection letter is to be given by the natural guardian 
of the Minor to the effect that the Minor has acquired sufficient knowledge 
about opening/operating the Bank account.
v. No cheque book will be issued in such accounts and no overdrawings will be 
allowed at any point of time.
vi. Debit Card can be issued in such accounts.
vii. Minor has to come in person for withdrawal wherever debit cards are not 
opted.
viii. Maximum balance in these accounts shall not exceed Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees 
Ten Lakh Only) at any point of time. 
ix. The aggregate of all withdrawals and transfers in a month shall not exceed 
Rs. 10,000/- with a maximum cap of Rs. 5000/- per day.
9.3 ACCOUNTS OF ILLITERATE PERSONS:
The Bank shall open accounts of illiterate persons, after observing formalities for 
opening such accounts. No cheque book facility is provided for such accounts. The 
Bank will explain the need for proper care and safe keeping of the passbook etc., 
given to the account holder. The Bank official shall explain the terms and conditions 
governing the account to the illiterate person.
Page 50 of 65
9.4 ACCOUNTS OF BLIND PERSONS:
The Bank shall open deposit account in the name of blind person after observing all 
the formalities of the Bank for opening and operation of such accounts. 
Branches are advised to offer all the banking facilities such as cheque book facility 
including cheques to third party/ies, to the visually challenged persons without any 
discrimination. Branches are also advised to render all possible assistance to the 
visually challenged persons for availing the various banking facilities.
In case a visually impaired customer makes cash withdrawals at the Bank then the 
payment must be made in the presence of another Bank employee/ officer. No 
outside witnesses are required unless the visually impaired customer requests that 
such witnesses be present.
9.5 ACCOUNTS OF PRISONERS:
The Bank shall open bank account of prisoners under Canara Small Saving Bank 
Deposit Account under (Product code 127) in the absence of document for identity 
and residential proof.
The signature or thumb impression shall be affixed in presence of the officer in 
charge of the jail and the said officer shall certify the same under his/her signature.
The account shall remain operational on annual submission of certificate of proof of 
address issued by the officer-in-charge of the jail.
9.6 HINDU JOINT FAMILY (HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY-HUF):
A Bank account may be opened in the name of a Hindu Joint Family (i.e., Hindu 
Undivided Family-HUF) provided the HUF is not engaged in trading/business activity. 
The operation of the account of HUF must be by Karta only as he alone has the 
capacity in law to enter into contracts etc., on behalf of HUF.
9.7 ACCOUNTS OF MENTALLY ILL/RETARDED PERSONS:
The Mental Health Act 1987 accords that “mentally ill person” means a person who 
is in need of treatment by reason of any mental disorder other than mental 
retardation. Sections 53 & 54 of this Act provide for the appointment of guardians 
and in certain cases, Managers in respect of the property. The prescribed appointing 
authorities are the District Courts and Collectors of Districts under the Mental Health 
Act 1987.
The National Trust for Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental 
Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999 provides for a law relating to certain 
specified disabilities. Clause (j) of Section 2 of that Act defines a “person with 
disability” to mean a person suffering from any of the conditions relating to autism, 
cerebral palsy, mental retardation or a combination of any two or more of such 
conditions and includes a person suffering from severe multiple disabilities. This Act 
empowers a Local Level Committee to appoint a Guardian, to a person with 
disabilities, who shall have the care of the person and property of the disabled 
person.
Branches are advised to take note of the legal position stated above and may rely 
on and be guided by the orders/certificates issued by the competent authority, 
under the respective Acts, appointing guardians/managers for the purposes of 
opening/operating bank accounts.
Page 51 of 65
10. REPAYMENT UNDER JOINT DEPOSITS:
The joint account holder can give any of the following mandates for disposal of balance 
in the account:
1) Either or survivor.
2) No. 1 or survivor.
3) Jointly.
10.1 Either or Survivor: When all depositors are alive, Bank will be making payment to 
any one or more of the depositors presenting the deposit receipt. The Bank will be 
making payment of the maturity proceeds to the surviving depositor who presents the 
deposit receipt and furnishes the proper discharge without reference to the other 
depositor as well as to the legal heirs of the deceased depositor. Example:- if the 
account is in the name of two individuals say, A & B, the final balance along with 
interest, if applicable, will be paid to either of account holders i.e., A or B, on date 
of maturity or to the survivor on death of any one of the account holders. If 
fixed/term deposits are opened with operating instructions ‘Either or Survivor’, 
the signatures of both the depositors need not be obtained for payment of the 
amount of deposits on maturity. However, the signatures of both the depositors 
have to be obtained in case the deposit is paid before maturity.
10.2 No. 1 or survivor: If the specified depositor is alive, payment will be made on request 
of the specified depositor. If the specified depositor is not alive on the date of 
maturity, the Bank will be making payment to the survivor without reference to the 
legal heirs of the specified depositor. If specified depositor dies on or after maturity, 
the claim will be settled in favour of the survivor subject to production of a notarized 
indemnity for indemnifying the Bank in case of the claim from legal heirs of the 
specified depositor.
The above mandates will be applicable to or become operational only on or after the 
date of maturity of term deposits. This mandate can be modified by the consent of 
all the account holders. In case of premature repayment of term deposits by one of 
the joint depositors on the death of the other with operation/repayment clause 
“Either or survivor” and Former or Survivor/s / No.1 or survivor/s”, the surviving joint 
depositor may be permitted premature withdrawal of the term deposit, only if there 
is joint mandate from the joint depositors to this effect.
This mandate is provided as a “Declaration” in the term deposit account opening form 
of the Bank.
10.3 Payable jointly: When all depositors are alive, the deposit receipt should be 
discharged by all depositors for receiving payment. If one or more of the depositor 
dies on or after maturity, the amount will be paid jointly to the surviving depositors 
along with the legal heirs of the deceased depositor.
11. SETTLEMENT OF DUES IN THE DECEASED DEPOSITOR’S ACCOUNT
11.1 If the depositor has registered nomination with the Bank, the balance outstanding in 
the account of the deceased depositor will be settled in favour of the nominee after 
the Bank is satisfied about the identity of the nominee.
Page 52 of 65
11.2 In the absence of nomination and where there are no disputes among the claimants, 
the Bank will settle the claim in respect of the deceased person to his/her legal heirs 
after observing all the formalities. The settlement of claims will be as per the 
delegated powers conferred from time to time.
11.3 The Bank may not insist on succession certificate from the Legal heirs irrespective of 
the amount involved. However, the Bank may adopt such safeguards in considering 
settlement of claims as appropriate including obtention of indemnity.
11.4 If the survivorship clause as available in the Account opening form is opted while 
opening a joint account, then in the event of death of any of the joint depositor(s) 
prior to the maturity of the deposit, the Bank will at the written request of the 
surviving depositor(s) be at liberty though not bound and its absolute discretion to 
pay interest till the date of settlement, to repay the deposit before maturity or to 
grant any advance against the security thereof to any one or more of the surviving 
depositor/s with the consent of other surviving depositor/s, on such terms as the Bank 
may decide and to add/delete/substitute any names therein. The discharge given by 
such surviving depositor(s) / any of the surviving depositor(s) shall give the Bank a 
valid discharge.
12. SAFE DEPOSIT LOCKERS
The facility available at select branches and wherever it is available, allotment of safe 
deposit locker will be subject to availability and compliance with other terms & 
conditions attached to the services. Compliance to KYC guidelines will be ensured 
before the lockers are hired out. Safe deposit lockers may be hired by an individual 
(singly or jointly with another individual/s), HUFs, Firms, Ltd. Co., Associates, 
Societies, Trusts, etc. Safe Deposit Locker can be opened by Minor individually duly 
represented by the natural guardian or jointly with natural guardian. Nomination 
facility is available to individual/s holding the locker singly or jointly. Joint locker 
holders can give mandate for access to the locker in the event of death of one of the 
holders as similar to those for deposit accounts. In the absence of nomination or 
mandate for disposal of contents of lockers, with a view to avoid hardship to common
persons, the Bank will release the contents of locker to the legal heirs against indemnity 
on the lines as applicable to deposit accounts.
13. REDRESSAL OF COMPLAINTS
To enable the customers to voice their grievances or offer suggestions for improvement 
in customer service, “Customer Day” is observed at all the offices of the Bank, across 
the organization, covering branches, Regional Offices, Circle Offices and Head Office, 
on 15th of every month (next working day, if 15th is a holiday). During specified hours 
on this day any customer can meet senior/ top executives of the Bank including 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer without prior appointment.
In case of any complaint, the matter may be first brought to the notice of concerned 
Branch Manager for immediate redressal. If the complaint is not redressed to the 
satisfaction of the customer, the matter may be taken up with the concerned Executivein Charge of the Regional Office/Circle Office. If customer is not satisfied with reply 
given by Regional Office he/she can escalate to Executive-in-Charge of Circle Office.
If the complainant still feels unsatisfied with the responses received, he/she can 
address his complaint to the Bank’s Principal Nodal Officer at Head Office (Chief 
Page 53 of 65
General Manager, Customer Service Vertical, Operations Wing, HO, Bengaluru) 
designated to deal with customers’ complaints/grievances giving full details of the 
case.
After exhausting the above machinery/channels, if the customer is not satisfied, he 
may write to Managing Director and CEO of the Bank and even after this, if not satisfied 
he is free to take recourse to the following:
(A) Banking Ombudsman, RBI.
(B) Directorate of Public Grievances, Government of India, Cabinet Secretariat, Sansad 
Marg, New Delhi.
(C) The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum or State/National Consumer 
Disputes Redressal Commission under Consumer Protection Act, 1986.
The details of internal set up for redressal of complaints/grievances will be displayed 
in the branch premises. The branch officials shall provide all required information 
regarding procedure for lodging the compliant.
The customer can also approach the Banking Ombudsman and lodge a complaint under 
THE RESERVE BANK - INTEGRATED OMBUDSMAN SCHEME, 2021. The complaint may be 
lodged online through the portal designed for the purpose (https://cms.rbi.org.in). The 
complaint may also be submitted through electronic or physical mode to the Centralized 
Receipt and Processing Centre, Chandigarh, if the customer, in case of grievance, had 
made a written complaint to the Bank and the Bank has rejected the compliant or the 
complainant had not received any reply within a period of one month after the Bank 
received his representation or the complainant is not satisfied with the reply given to 
him by the Bank.
14. BANKS’ CODE OF CONDUCT WITH RESPECT TO DEPOSITORS
The “Banks’ Code of Conduct” in respect of Depositors culminates from the Bankers’ 
Fair Practice Code of the Indian Banks’ Association. This Code is aimed at achieving 
higher operating standards for the benefit of the Depositors. In this Code, ‘you’ denotes
the Depositor and ‘we’ the Bank.
Our Commitment to You:
We promise to:
14.1 Act fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with you by
➢ Meeting the commitments and standards in this Code.
➢ Making sure our products and services meet relevant laws and regulations.
➢ Adhering to ethical principles of integrity and transparency.
14.2 Deal with speed and concern in respect of errors/mistakes by
➢ Correcting mistakes quickly.
➢ Handling your complaints quickly.
➢ Reversing any Bank charges that we apply by mistake/oversight.
14.3 Publicize this Code by hosting it on our website and have copies available for you on 
request.
Page 54 of 65
14.4 Before you become a depositor, we will:
➢ Give you clear information explaining the key features of the services and 
products you tell us you are interested in.
➢ Give you information on any type of account facility which we offer and may suit 
your needs.
➢ Tell you what information we need from you to prove your identity and address 
and to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, and
➢ Request for additional information about you and your family to build a database 
but such information can be furnished by you only if you wish and we will not 
compel you to give these information for opening your account.
14.5 We will tell you if we offer products and services in more than one way [for example, 
through ATMs/internet, over the phone, in branches and so on] and tell you how to 
find out more about them.
14.6 Once you have chosen an account or service, we will tell you how it works.
14.7 When you open a single account or a joint account, we will give you information on 
your rights and responsibilities.
14.8 We recommend that you avail nomination facility offered on all deposit accounts, 
articles in safe custody and safe deposit vaults.
14.9 We will guide you how we will deal with deposits and other assets held with us in the 
name of a deceased person in the absence of nomination.
14.10 You can find out about our interest rates by:
➢ Looking at the notices in our branches.
➢ Calling our branches/ Call centres.
➢ Looking on our website; or
14.11 When you become a Depositor, we will give you information on the interest rates 
which apply to your accounts and when we will pay interest on your deposits. We will 
also tell you our website address and the other ways in which you can find out about 
changes in the interest rates.
14.12 At the time of opening of the account, we will inform you of the rate at which interest 
is paid on your savings deposits.
14.13 Upon your becoming a depositor, we will give you upfront details of any charges 
applicable to the products chosen by you.
14.14 To help you manage your account and check entries on it, we will give you account 
statements at regular intervals except in cases where Pass Books have been provided.
14.15 We will normally provide you with a statement periodically as per our policy. You can
ask us to provide you with account statements more often than is normally available 
on your type of account, but there may be a charge for this service.
14.16 You will also be able to see your last few transactions on ATM or through your internet 
account wherever such facilities are available with us and opted by you.
Page 55 of 65
14.17 We will tell you about the clearing cycle, including when you can withdraw money 
after lodging collection instruments and when you will start to earn interest.
14.18 We will pay interest on funds involved if collection is delayed beyond the normal 
period as stipulated by RBI.
14.19 We will act upon mandates given by you for direct debits [say ECS] and other standing 
instructions.
14.20 If, within a reasonable period after the entry has been made on your statement there 
is a dispute about a cheque paid from your account, we will give you the cheque copy 
as evidence.
14.21 We will provide you details of the service, exchange rates and charges that apply to 
foreign exchange transactions, which you are about to make. If this is not possible, 
we will tell you how these will be worked out.
14.22 If you want to transfer money abroad, we will tell you how to do this and will give 
you:
➢ A description of the services and how to use them.
➢ Details of when the money you have sent abroad should get there and the reasons 
for possible delays.
➢ The exchange rate applied when converting to the foreign currency; and 
➢ Details of any commission or charges which you will have to pay.
14.23 In case of money transfer from abroad, the original amount received and charges 
deducted, if any, will be informed.
14.24 We will guide you about regulatory requirements or conditions relating to foreign 
exchange services offered by you as and when required by you.
14.25 In the event your cheque book, pass book or ATM/debit card has been lost or stolen, 
or that someone else knows your PIN or other security information, we will, on your 
notifying us, take immediate steps to try to prevent these from being misused.
14.26 We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential [even when you 
are no longer a customer]. We will not reveal transaction details of your accounts to 
a third party, including entities in our group, other than in the following four 
exceptional cases when we are allowed to do :
➢ If we have to give the information by law.
➢ If there is duty to the public to reveal the information.
➢ If our interests require us to give the information [for example, to prevent fraud] 
but we will not use this as a reason for giving information about you or your 
accounts [including your name and address] to anyone else, including other 
companies in our group, for marketing purpose.
➢ If you ask us to reveal the information, or if we have your permission to provide 
such information to our group/associate/entities or companies when we have 
tie-up arrangements for providing other financial service products. 
15. DEPOSITORS’ RIGHTS
Deposits being the basic financial raw material, depositors form the core for banking 
business. There is now an awakening on depositors’ rights, rightly so, in the Banks, as 
it is fulfillment of such rights which can enable an effective resource management 
Page 56 of 65
mechanism in Banks. Further, the depositor, being a consumer of various products and 
services offered by the Bank, is entitled to the following rights:
15.1 Right to Information:
 A depositor will have right to information about price, quality, quantity and standard 
of the products/services offered by the Bank to enable him/her to take an 
independent decision.
15.2 Right to choose:
 A depositor will have the absolute freedom to choose among the various products 
and services offered by the Bank to suit his/her requirements.
15.3 Right to avail/utilize the products and services:
 A depositor will have the right to avail/utilize the products/services chosen by 
him/her without any intervention/obstacle.
15.4 Right to be heard and redressal of grievances:
 A depositor will have the right to be heard and seek redressal against deficient 
service/poor quality of products and services, unfair Trade practices and 
unscrupulous exploitation. This includes his/her right to fair redressal of any 
genuine grievance relating to products/services which he/she has chosen to 
utilize.
*******
Page 57 of 65
ANNEXURE - A
Customer Identification Procedure-Features to be verified and Documents that 
may be obtained from Customers:
Features Documents
Accounts of individuals
Proof of Identity and 
Address
For undertaking Customer Due Diligence (CDD), Bank 
shall obtain the following from an individual while 
establishing an account-based relationship or while 
dealing with the individual who is a beneficial owner, 
authorized signatory or the power of attorney holder 
related to any legal entity:
(A)The Aadhaar number where, 
(i) he is desirous of receiving any benefit or subsidy 
under any scheme notified under section 7 of the 
Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and 
Other subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 
(18 of 2016); or 
(ii) he decides to submit his Aadhaar number 
voluntarily to a bank; or 
(B) The proof of possession of Aadhaar number where 
offline verification can be carried out; or 
(C) The proof of possession of Aadhaar number where 
offline verification cannot be carried out or any OVD 
or the equivalent e-document thereof containing 
the details of his identity and address; and 
(D)the KYC Identifier with an explicit consent to 
download records from CKYCR; and
(E) The Permanent Account Number or the equivalent 
e-document thereof or Form No. 60 as defined in 
Income-tax Rules, 1962; and 
(F) Such other documents including in respect of the 
nature of business and financial status of the 
customer, or the equivalent e-documents thereof as 
may be required by the bank.
Provided that where the customer has submitted, 
i) Aadhaar number under clause (A) above to a bank, 
such bank shall carry out authentication of the 
customer’s Aadhaar number using e-KYC 
Page 58 of 65
authentication facility provided by the Unique 
Identification Authority of India.
Further, in such a case, if customer wants to provide 
a current address, different from the address as per 
the identity information available in the Central 
Identities Data Repository, he may give a selfdeclaration to that effect to the Bank. 
ii) Proof of possession of Aadhaar under clause (B) 
above where offline verification can be carried out, 
the bank shall carry out offline verification. 
iii) An equivalent e-document of any OVD, the bank 
shall verify the digital signature as per the provisions 
of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) 
and any rules issues thereunder and take a live photo 
as per digital KYC process.
iv) Any OVD or proof of possession of Aadhaar number 
under clause (C) above where offline verification 
cannot be carried out, the bank shall carry out 
verification through digital KYC. 
v) KYC Identifier under clause (D) above, the Bank 
shall retrieve the KYC records online from the CKYCR.
Provided that for a period not beyond such date as 
may be notified by the Government for a class of 
Regulated entities, instead of carrying out digital 
KYC, the Regulated entity pertaining to such class 
may obtain a certified copy of the proof of possession 
of Aadhaar number or the OVD and a recent 
photograph where an equivalent e-document is not 
submitted.
Provided further that in case e-KYC 
authentication cannot be performed for an individual 
desirous of receiving any benefit or subsidy under any 
scheme notified under section 7 of the Aadhaar 
(Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other subsidies, 
Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 owing to injury, illness 
or infirmity on account of old age or otherwise, and 
similar causes, Bank shall, apart from obtaining the 
Aadhaar number, perform identification preferably by 
carrying out offline verification or alternatively by 
obtaining the certified copy of any other OVD or the 
equivalent e-document thereof from the customer. 
Customer Due Diligence done in this manner shall 
invariably be carried out by an official of the Bank and 
such exception handling shall also be a part of the 
concurrent audit as mandated in Section 8. Bank shall 
ensure to duly record the cases of exception handling 
in a centralised exception database. The database 
shall contain the details of grounds of granting 
Page 59 of 65
exception, customer details, name of the designated 
official authorising the exception and additional 
details, if any. The database shall be subjected to 
periodic internal audit/inspection by the Bank and 
shall be available for supervisory review.
Explanation 1: 
Bank shall, where its customer submits a proof of 
possession of Aadhaar Number containing Aadhaar 
Number, ensure that such customer redacts or blacks 
out his Aadhaar number through appropriate means 
where the authentication of Aadhaar number is not 
required as per proviso (i) above.
Explanation 2:
Biometric based e-KYC authentication can be done by 
bank official / business correspondents / business 
facilitators.
Explanation 3:
The use of Aadhaar, proof of possession of Aadhaar 
etc., shall be in accordance with the Aadhaar 
(Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies 
Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 and the regulations 
made thereunder.
• Officially Valid Documents (OVD) are as under:
I. Passport
II. Driving License
III. Proof of possession of Aadhaar number
IV. Voter Identity Card issued by Election Commission 
of India
V. Job Card issued by NREGA duly signed by an officer 
of the State Government
VI. Letter issued by the National Population Register 
containing details of name and address
Accounts of companies
Where the client is a company, certified copies of 
following documents or the equivalent e-documents 
are to be submitted:
(i) Certificate of incorporation
(ii) Memorandum and Articles of Association
(iii) Permanent Account Number of the company
(iv) A resolution from the Board of Directors and 
Power of Attorney granted to its managers, 
officers or employees to transact on its 
behalf.
(v) Corporate Identification Number (CIN)
(vi) The names of the relevant persons holding 
senior management position; and
Page 60 of 65
(vii) The registered office and the principal place 
of its business, if it is different.
(viii) One copy of an Officially Valid Document 
containing details of identity and address, 
one recent photograph and Permanent 
Account Numbers or Form No.60 of related 
beneficial owner, the managers, officers or 
employees, as the case may be, holding an 
attorney to transact on the company’s 
behalf.
Accounts of partnership firms
Where the client is a partnership firm, certified copies 
of following documents or the equivalent e-documents 
are to be submitted:
(i) Registration Certificate
(ii) Partnership Deed
(iii) Permanent Account Number of the 
partnership firm
(iv) One copy of an Officially Valid Document 
containing details of identity and address, 
one recent photograph and Permanent 
Account Numbers or Form No.60 of related 
beneficial owner, managers, officers or 
employees, as the case may be, holding and 
an attorney to transact on its behalf.
(v) The names of all the partners; and
(vi) Address of the registered office, and the 
principal place of its business, if it is 
different.
Accounts of Trusts
Where the client is a Trust, certified copies of 
following documents or the equivalent e-documents 
are to be submitted:
(i) Registration Certificate
(ii) Trust Deed
(iii) Permanent Account Number or Form No.60 of 
the trust
(iv) One copy of an Officially Valid Document 
containing details of identity and address, 
one recent photograph and Permanent 
Account Numbers or Form No.60 of the 
related beneficial owner, managers, officers 
or employees, as the case may be, holding an 
attorney to transact on its behalf.
(v) the names of the beneficiaries, trustees, 
settlor, protector, if any and authors of the 
trust.
Page 61 of 65
(vi) the address of the registered office of the 
trust; and
(vii) list of trustees and officially valid documents 
for those discharging the role as trustee and 
authorised to transact on behalf of the trust.
Accounts of Unincorporated Association or body of individuals
Where the client is an unincorporated association or a 
body of individuals, certified copies of following 
documents or the equivalent e-documents are to be 
submitted:
(i) Resolution of the managing body of such 
association or body of individuals
(ii) Permanent Account Number or Form No.60 of 
the unincorporated association or a body of 
individuals
(iii) Power of Attorney granted to the person who 
will transact on its behalf.
(iv) One copy of an Officially Valid Document 
containing details of identity and address, 
one recent photograph and Permanent 
Account Numbers or Form No.60 of the 
related beneficial owner, managers, officers 
or employees, as the case may be, holding 
an attorney to transact on its behalf.
(v) Such information as may be required to 
establish the legal existence of such 
association or body of individuals.
Note:
(a) Unregistered trusts/partnership firms shall be 
included under the term ‘Unincorporated 
Association’.
(b) Term ‘body of individuals’ includes societies.
Accounts of Proprietorship Concerns
Proof of name, address 
and activity of the 
concern
For Proprietary concerns, Customer Due Diligence of 
the individual (proprietor) are to be carried out and 
any two of the following documents or the equivalent 
e-documents in the name of the proprietary concern 
should be submitted as a proof of business/activity:
a) Registration Certificate including Udyam 
Registration Certificate (URC) issued by the 
Government.
b) Certificate/licence issued by the Municipal 
authorities under Shop & Establishment Act.
c) Sales and income tax returns.
Page 62 of 65
d) CST/VAT/GST certificate,
e) Certificate / registration document issued by 
Sales Tax / Service Tax / Professional Tax 
authorities.
f) The complete Income Tax return (not just the 
acknowledgement) in the name of the sole 
Proprietor where the firm’s income is reflected, 
duly authenticated/acknowledged by the Income 
Tax Authorities.
g) Utility bills such as electricity, water and landline 
telephone bills. 
h) IEC (Importer Exporter Code) issued to the 
proprietary concern by the office of DGFT / 
Licence/certificate of practice issued in the name 
of the proprietary concern by any professional 
body incorporated under a statute.
Though the default rule is that any two documents
mentioned above should be provided as activity proof 
by a Proprietary concern, in cases where the branches 
are satisfied that it is not possible to furnish two such 
documents, they would have the discretion to accept 
only one of those documents as activity proof. In such 
cases, the branches, however, would have to 
undertake contact point verification, collect such 
information as would be required to establish the 
existence of such firm, confirm, clarify and satisfy 
themselves that the business activity has been verified 
from the address of the proprietary concern.
Accounts of Limited Liability Partnerships
Proof of name, address 
and activity of the 
concern
(i) Certified copy of incorporation documents 
filed with Registrar of Companies.
(ii) Certificate issued by the Registrar of 
Companies.
(iii) Copy of LLP Agreement signed by all the 
partners. In case, there is no LLP agreement, 
Schedule I of the LLP Act signed by all the 
partners will prevail.
(iv) (a) Any Officially Valid Document which 
contains proof of identity/address in respects 
of person holding an attorney to transacts on 
its behalf and
 (b) PAN or Form 60 as defined in the Income 
Tax Rules, 1962 issued to the person holding 
a power of attorney to transact on its behalf.
Accounts of juridical persons not specifically covered above, such as Societies , 
Universities and Local bodies like Village Panchayats, etc. or who purports to act 
on behalf of such juridical person or individual or trust.
Page 63 of 65
Proof of name, address 
and activity of the 
concern
The certified copies of the following documents or the 
equivalent e-documents thereof are to be submitted:
i) Document showing name of the person authorized 
to act on behalf of the entity;
ii. (a) Any Officially Valid Document which contains
proof of identity/address in respects of person 
holding an attorney to transacts on its behalf and
(b) PAN or Form 60 as defined in the Income Tax 
Rules, 1962 issued to the person holding a 
power of attorney to transact on its behalf. 
iii) Such documents as may be required to establish 
the legal existence of such an entity/juridical 
person.
Provided that in case of a trust, the Bank shall ensure 
that trustees disclose their status at the time of 
commencement of an account-based relationship or 
when carrying out transactions as under:
a) Carrying out any international money transfer 
operations for a person who is not an account 
holder of the Bank.
b) Carrying out transactions for a non-account-based 
customer, that is a walk-in customer, where the 
amount involved is equal to or exceeds rupees fifty 
thousand, whether conducted as a single 
transaction or several transactions that appear to 
be connected.
c) When a Bank has reason to believe that a customer 
(account- based or walk-in) is intentionally 
structuring a transaction into a series of 
transactions below the threshold of rupees fifty 
thousand.
Branches to obtain only the documents as mentioned above and not to accept any 
other document for KYC purpose.
Page 64 of 65
ABBREVIATION
ALCO ASSET LIABILITY COMMITTEE
AML ANTI MONEY LAUNDERING
ARR ALTERNATIVE REFERENCE RATE
AUD AUSTRALIAN DOLLARS
BSBDA BASIC SAVING BANK DEPOSIT ACCOUNT
CA CURRENT ACCOUNT
CAD CANADIAN DOLLAR
CBS CORE BANKING SOLUTION
CC CASH CREDIT
CDD CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE
CGA CAPITAL GAIN ACCOUNT
CIT CASH-IN-TRANSIT
DDA DIAMOND DOLLAR ACCOUNT
DEAF DEPOSITOR EDUCATION AND AWARENESS FUND
DW DIVIDEND WARRANT
DWCRA DEVELOPMENT OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN IN RURAL AREAS
EEFC EXCHANGE EARNER'S FOREIGN CURRENCY ACCOUNT
EUR EURO
FBIL FINANCIAL BENCHMARKS INDIA PVT. LTD
FCNR(B) FOREGIN CURRENCY NON RESIDENT ACCOUNTS (BANK)
FCY FOREIGN CURRENCY
FD FIXED DEPOSIT
FEDAI FOREIGN EXCHANGE DEALERS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA
FEMA FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANAGEMENT ACT
FIs FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
FRRO FOREIGNER REGISTRATION REGIONAL OFFICE
GBP GREAT BRITAIN POUND
HUF HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY
IBA INDIAN BANK ASSOCIATION
KD KAMADHENU DEPOSIT
KYC KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER
NBFC NON BANKING FINANCIAL COMPANY
NND NITYA NIDHI DEPOSIT
NRE 
ACCOUNT NON RESIDENT EXTERNAL ACCOUNT
NRI NON RESIDENT INDIAN
NRO 
ACCOUNT NON RESIDENT ORDINARY ACCOUNT
OD OVERDRAFT
OTM OFFSITE TRANSACTION MONITORING
OVD OFFICIALLY VALID DOCUMENT
PAN PERMANENT ACCOUNT NUMBER
PIO PERSON OF INDIAN ORIGIN
PML PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING.
PPOS PENSION PAYMENT ORDERS
RBI RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RD RECURRING DEPOSIT
RFC RESIDENT FOREIGN CURRENCY
RFCD RESIDENT FOREIGN CURRENCY (DOMESTIC) ACCOUNT
Page 65 of 65
SB SAVING BANK
SEZ SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONE
SHG SELF HELP GROUP
SNRR SPECIAL NON RESIDENT RUPEE ACCOUNT.
TD TERM DEPOSIT
TDS TAX DEDUCTION AT SOURCE
UIDAI UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION AUTHORITY OF INDIA
USD US DOLLAR
VVV VIKAS VOLUNTEER VAHINI
*****