1
POLICY ON BANK DEPOSITS
Revised on 24-03-2025
2
Notice to the Reader
This policy on deposits outlines the guiding principles in respect of formulation of various 
deposit products offered by the Bank and terms and conditions governing the conduct of 
the deposit accounts. The document recognizes the rights of depositors (small depositors 
in particular) and aims at dissemination of information with regard to various aspects of 
acceptance of deposits from the members of the public, conduct and operations of various 
deposits accounts, payment of interest on various deposit accounts, closure of deposit 
accounts, method of disposal of deposits of deceased depositors, etc., for the benefit of 
customers. It is expected that this document will impart greater transparency in dealing with 
the individual customers and create awareness among customers of their rights. The 
ultimate objective is that the customer will get services they are rightfully entitled to receive 
without demand.
While adopting these policies, the bank reiterates its commitments to individual customers 
outlined in Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers. This document is a broad 
framework under which the rights of common depositors are recognized. Detailed 
operational instructions on various deposit schemes and related services will be issued from 
time to time separately.
This policy document is the property of Federal Bank Limited and is for use only by Federal 
Bank Limited or any of its group companies. It must not be copied, disclosed, circulated or 
referred to in correspondence with external parties or discussed with any other third party 
other than for any regulatory requirements without prior written consent from Bank or any 
other nominated person.
3
Table of Contents
Sl No. Topics Page No.
1 Preamble 4
2 Types of Deposit accounts 4
3 Opening of Deposit Accounts 5
4 Operation of Accounts 10
5 Stop Payment Facility 12
6 Dishonor of Cheque and NACH Mandate 13
7
Extension of Alternate Delivery Channels to Savings Bank & Current 
Deposit account holders 13
8 Payment of Interest 13
9 Premature Withdrawal/Closure of Term deposits 15
10 Insurance Cover for deposits 16
11 Loan against Deposits 16
12 Settlement of dues in deceased deposit account 17
13 Inoperative accounts 18
14 Unclaimed Deposits 20
15 Confidentiality of Customer Information 21
16 Redressal of Complaints and Grievances 21
17 Secured credit card based on Fixed Deposit 21
18 Post-facto change in policy matters 21
4
1. PREAMBLE
One of the important functions of the Bank is to accept deposits from the public for the 
purpose of lending. In fact, depositors are the major stakeholders of the Banking System. 
The depositors and their interests form the key area of the regulatory framework for banking 
in India and this has been enshrined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Reserve Bank 
of India is empowered to issue directives / advice on interest rates on deposits and other 
aspects regarding conduct of deposit accounts from time to time. The changes stipulated by 
RBI from time to time with respect to various policies related to KYC/operation of accounts 
/rules and procedures are applicable to all types of deposit accounts. With liberalization in 
the financial system and deregulation of interest rates, banks are now free to formulate their 
own Policy on Deposits and to offer deposit products within the broad guidelines issued by 
RBI.
(See annexure for details of RBI circulars referred)
2. TYPES OF DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
The deposit products / services offered by the Bank, though may be under different names, 
can be categorized broadly into the following types:
"Demand deposits" means a deposit received by the Bank, which is withdrawable on 
demand.
"Current Account" is a form of non-interest-bearing demand deposit wherefrom withdrawals 
are allowed any number of times depending upon the balance in the account or up to a 
particular agreed amount and will also include other deposit accounts which are neither 
savings deposits nor term deposits.
"Savings deposits" means a form of interest-bearing demand deposit, by whatever name 
called and is subject to restrictions as to the number and amount of withdrawals permitted by 
the Bank during any specified period.
"Term deposit" means a deposit received by the Bank for a fixed period withdrawable only 
after the expiry of the fixed period and includes deposits in which interest is reinvested. This 
includes Fixed deposit, Cash Certificate, Recurring Deposit, Flexi deposits, Tax saving 
deposits, Sweep-in deposits, Annuity deposits, short term deposits, Long-term deposits etc.
“Recurring Deposits” means a form of deposit, which stipulates remittance of regular 
installments for a pre-fixed period at pre-fixed intervals by the customer. It forms part of term 
deposits. The minimum and maximum period of recurring deposit is decided from time to time 
by the ALCO of the Bank. A recurring deposit will be due for payment on maturity date or one 
month after the date of payment of last scheduled installment, whichever is later.
“Non- callable deposits” is primarily targeted at the interest conscious customer base 
including both resident and non-resident. As is evident from the name, premature closure is 
not permitted for such deposits and the customer in turn receives an enhanced interest rate. 
The rate would be a mark-up from the existing rates offered to other customers for normal 
term deposits for the same tenure.
“Bulk Deposit” is referred to as single Rupee term deposits with minimum deposit value as 
defined by RBI from time to time. The bank shall maintain the bulk deposit interest rate card 
separately in Core Banking System to facilitate supervisory review.
5
3. OPENING OF DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
3.1. The account opening forms and other material would be provided to the prospective 
depositor by the Bank. The same will contain details of information to be furnished and 
documents to be produced for verification and / or for record. The Bank official dealing with 
the customer and opening the account shall explain the procedural formalities and provide 
necessary clarifications sought by the prospective depositor when he/she approaches for 
opening a deposit account.
3.2. The Bank before opening any deposit account will carry out due diligence as required 
under “Know Your Customer” (KYC) guidelines issued by RBI Anti –Money laundering 
rules and regulations and or such other norms or procedures as per Policy on Combating 
Financial Crime adopted by the Bank. As per the latest statutory and due diligence 
requirements, the customer is required to provide an officially valid document (OVD) and 
PAN/forms as regulatory prescribed. The Bank shall obtain photographs of the 
depositors/account holders and those who are authorized to operate the accounts at the 
time of opening of all new accounts. The photographs should be recent. Bank may not 
insist for photograph in case of accounts of staff members (Single/Joint). However, 
photographs may be insisted upon in case the joint holder is not an employee/ existing 
customer. The Bank will encourage all customers requiring PAN under the Income Tax 
Act to submit PAN details while opening the account and only those customers who have 
income less than the relevant slabs mentioned in the Income Tax Act or having mainly the 
agricultural income will be advised to open accounts with Form 60.
3.3. Savings Bank Accounts can be opened for eligible person / persons and certain 
organizations / agencies (as advised by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time).
3.4. Current Accounts can be opened by individuals / partnership firms / Private and Public 
Limited Companies / HUFs / Specified Associates / Societies / Trusts / Departments of 
Authority created by Government (Central or State), Limited Liability Partnership etc.
3.5. Term Deposits Accounts including recurring deposits can be opened by individuals / 
partnership firms / Private and Public Limited Companies / HUFs/ Specified Associates / 
Societies / Trusts / Departments of Authority created by Government (Central or State) / 
Limited Liability Partnership etc.
3.6. As defined by FEMA, Non-Resident Indian (NRI) means person resident outside India 
who is citizen of India or is a person of Indian origin. As per the Schedule I and III of the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 Non- Resident Indian (NRI) 
and Person of Indian Origin (PIO)/ Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) can open NRE accounts 
in various forms such as savings, current, recurring, or fixed deposit accounts. Similarly, a 
Non-Resident (including NRI/PIO/OCI) can open NRO accounts in various forms such as 
savings, current, recurring, or fixed deposit accounts. NRIs and PIOs are also eligible to 
open and maintain FCNR (B) accounts with an authorized dealer.
6
3.7. For deposit products like Savings Bank Account and Current Deposit Account, the 
Bank will normally stipulate certain minimum balances to be maintained as part of the 
terms and conditions governing operation of such accounts. Failure to maintain the 
minimum balance in the account will attract levy of charges as specified by the Bank from 
time to time. For Saving Bank Account, the Bank may also place restrictions on the number 
of transactions, cash withdrawals, etc., for a given period. Similarly, the Bank may specify 
charges for issue of cheque books, additional statement of accounts, duplicate passbook, 
folio charges, etc. All such details regarding terms and conditions for operation of the 
accounts and schedule of charges for various services provided will be communicated to 
the prospective depositor while opening the account. Bank will be levying service charges 
on Savings Bank and Current Account as per bank's policy on service charges which is 
approved by the board.
3.8. Bank has introduced BSBDA scheme in line with the RBI guidelines on BSBDA 
account from time to time. The Bank is committed to providing basic banking services as 
part of its financial inclusion agenda. Banking services will be offered to them through the 
Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account Scheme and additionally, Small Accounts opened in 
terms of sub-rule (5) of the PML Rules, 2005 which has relaxed customer acceptance 
norms as per regulatory guidelines. The terms and conditions of these accounts are 
published and maintained on the bank’s website.
3.9. In the Core Banking platform, the Bank is allotting a Customer ID for each customer 
on the basis of information collected through the Customer Information Form. When a 
customer, who is having KYC complied Customer ID, desires to open another account, 
the bank will not insist for submission of KYC documents again.
3.10. While opening Current Accounts, the Bank shall ensure adherence to all the 
requirements from RBI regarding Opening and operation of Current Accounts as amended 
from time to time. In particular:
a) If the customer is not enjoying any credit facilities from the banking system, a current 
account can be opened without restrictions, subject to compliance of KYC norms and 
other due diligence.
b) If the customer is enjoying credit facility from Banking system, the opening will be 
permitted only as per the directions issued by RBI from time to time. guideline of RBI. 
Periodic monitoring also will be implemented as prescribed by the RBI.
c) Bank may open the of current accounts, for the category of entities exempted by the 
RBI, even if they are enjoying credit facility from the Banking system.
3.11. A savings / fixed / recurring bank deposit account can be opened by a minor of any 
age through his/her natural (mother or father) or legally appointed guardian, (known as 
Minor’s Account). Minors above the age of 10 will also be allowed to open and operate a 
savings bank account independently. OVD of minors and their guardians (natural / legal) 
is mandatory for opening minor accounts. In cases where the minor does not possess 
OVD, BSBDA small account shall be opened with an option to upgrade to normal account 
on submitting valid OVD. Separate introduction or certificate from head of the educational 
institution where the minor is studying is not required. Single/Guardian/ Joint mode of 
7
operation is permitted for minors of age 10 year and above. Guardian mode operation is 
mandatory for minors under the age of 10. While opening accounts in guardian mode, “E 
or S’ operation is not permissible. (Due to restrictions placed for Mother to act as natural 
guardian of a Hindu minor under section 6 of Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, it is 
advisable to ensure that such accounts are always kept in credit). However, no overdraft 
will be granted to the minor. No Cheque will be provided wherever minors are operating 
the account by himself/ herself. Fresh photographs and KYC documents shall be obtained 
for minors on becoming major. At that time, it shall be ensured that Customer Due 
Diligence (CDD) documents as per the CDD standards are available with the Bank. On 
attaining majority, the erstwhile minor should confirm the balance in his/her account and if 
the account is operated by the natural guardian / guardian, fresh specimen signature of 
erstwhile minor would be obtained and kept on record for all operational purposes. 
3.12. In addition to the conventional deposit products, bank may offer a variety of special 
value-added products and services thereby increasing product offerings and providing 
greater convenience for customers, such as higher rate deposit accounts for senior 
citizens.
i. Bank may offer Fed Flexi Smart Saver deposit for NRIs, Smart deposits for Resident 
customers via Fintech platforms, which gives the convenience of choosing a core 
amount and instalment up to ten times of the core amount chosen.
ii. Special Non Resident deposits with higher return by way of forward-booking of 
underlying foreign currency, known as Federal Rupee Plus is offered to NR customers.
iii. Bank may offer Millionaire Federal Savings Fund, a recurring deposit scheme which 
lets the customer choose a certain tenure and installment amount that will produce 
returns that will make a customer a "millionaire" upon successful remittances of 
installments. 
iv. a. Bank also offers digital platforms through which customers can open operative 
accounts instantly using the OTP based e-KYC. Accounts can be opened online by 
customers who have their mobile number linked with Aadhaar and registered with 
UIDAI. These accounts are minimum KYC accounts which can be instantly operated 
up to Regulatory permitted limits. There are regulatory restrictions on the transaction 
limits and balances till the customer completes KYC requirements as per Policy on 
Combating Financial Crime. To avail the full benefits of banking, customers should 
complete their normal KYC within one year by visiting a branch of the Bank or by 
completing Video based Customer Identification Process (V-CIP) formalities through 
Video KYC portal.
Any new product issued in this category shall be subject to the Bank’s extant 
requirements for New Product Approval Policy.
b. With the introduction of Video Based customer identification process, the Bank is 
offering Video Based Account Opening (VAO) where a customer can open an account 
instantly through approved digital means after completing OTP based e-KYC and then 
by face-to-face interaction with an official of the Bank through a video call. The 
customer can instantly activate Mobile Banking after the account is activated post 
completion of Video based Customer Identification Process (V-CIP) formalities.
8
c. Bank may enter into arrangements with entities, wherein these entities will refer their 
clients to open accounts with the Bank. Standard account opening procedures, 
including Customer Due Diligence as per the Bank's Policy on Combating Financial 
Crime, will be followed for these clients, and the accounts will be opened based on the 
customers' requirements. The role of third-party entities in the arrangement will be 
limited to referring the clients to the Bank.
d. Account Opening through Fintech Partnerships: 
Savings Accounts and Term Deposit accounts can be opened by customers through 
digital platforms provided by Fintech partners of the Bank. This would serve as an 
additional distribution channel for the Bank.
• Customers can download the Fintech Partner’s mobile application and open 
the Savings Bank account. Post opening the savings account, the customer 
can also open term deposit account for the prescribed period. 
• The limited facility account will be opened through Aadhaar OTP based e-KYC. 
The account will be fully activated on completion of video KYC.
• Accounts that have not completed VCIP within a year will be closed centrally 
and the outstanding balance will be transferred to the customer after collecting 
the alternate Savings account of the customer.
• Customers will be allowed to apply for products like debit card, cheque book 
and services like fund transfer, deposit opening, nominee addition, account 
closure etc. through the Fintech app.
• For a few services like offline mobile number updation etc. customers will have 
to visit the nearest branch. 
Fixed Deposits Opening through Fintech Partnerships as Security for 
Secured Credit Cards:
• A customer not having an account or an existing relationship with the Bank can 
open a Fixed Deposit through Bank’s Co- Branded Credit Card partners, for 
the purpose of keeping security deposits for obtaining credit cards.
• Such deposits will be lien marked as security for the Credit Card issued.
If the deposits are funded from another Bank account of the customer, the open 
date of the deposit will be the date on which the Bank has received the funds in its 
account.
3.13. The Bank may at its discretion open deposit accounts other than Savings Bank 
Accounts for illiterate persons. The account of such a person may be opened provided he 
/ she calls the Bank personally along with a witness who is known to both the depositor 
and the Bank. Normally, no Cheque book facility is provided for such Savings Bank 
Account. At the time of withdrawal / repayment of deposit amount and/or interest, the 
account holder should affix his / her thumb impression or mark in the presence of the 
authorized officer who should verify the identity of the person. The Bank should explain 
the need for proper care and safekeeping of the passbook etc. given to the account holder. 
The Bank official shall explain the terms and conditions governing the account to the 
illiterate person.
9
3.14. In order to facilitate access to banking facilities by visually challenged persons, bank 
shall offer banking facilities including Cheque book facility / operation of ATM/ locker etc., 
to the visually challenged as they are legally competent to enter into contracts. Bank shall 
offer all the banking facilities such as Cheque book facility including third party cheques, 
ATM facility, Net Banking facility, locker facility, retail loans, credit cards etc., to the visually 
challenged without any discrimination, if they agree to take the risks associated with 
availing these facilities and assume full responsibility for the losses, if any suffered by 
him/her as well as the bank on account of his/her availing such facilities. The opening and 
operation of such accounts shall be subject to special rules framed by the Bank to protect 
the interests of the visually challenged customers.
3.15. Banking facilities may also be extended to sick / incapacitated / old people who are 
unable to be physically present in the branch and too ill to put in a signature. The customer 
maybe be allowed banking facilities if he can put a thumb impression/unable to put even 
a thumb impression. In case the customer is able to give a thumb impression it must be 
witnessed by two persons one of whom is an authorized employee of the bank. Where the 
customer cannot put a thumb impression, a mark can be obtained on the withdrawal 
form/Cheque which must be witnessed by two persons one of whom is an authorized 
employee of the bank. The customer may be asked as to who would be withdrawing the 
amount on the basis of the Cheque/ withdrawal form and such a person must be identified 
by two independent witnesses. The person withdrawing the amount should also furnish 
his signature to the bank.
3.16. Savings bank and term deposits can be opened in the name of persons with autism, 
cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple disabilities by the legal guardian appointed 
by the District Court under Mental Health Act, 1987 or by the Local Level Committees set 
up under the National Trust for welfare of persons with autism, cerebral palsy, mental 
retardation, and multiple disabilities under Disabilities Act, 1999. Appointment of guardian 
is given in Form B (Form of confirmation of appointment of guardian) by the committee. 
The authenticity of Form B should be verified with the Local Level Committee and the 
branch shall contact the Committee at periodic intervals to ensure the validity of 
guardianship. Branches shall ensure strict adherence to rules applicable for opening of 
Savings Bank, Recurring Deposits and Term Deposits.
3.17. The Bank ensures that all account opening formalities (except for accounts opened 
through digital channels) are completed inside the branch premise or in case of necessity an 
authorized official is deputed to obtain the completed account opening forms along with 
photograph and other documents. Bank officials may also open deposit accounts using 
approved system capabilities and devices, through assisted journeys after obtaining the 
necessary documents digitally and ensuring KYC, at the customer locations outside the 
branch.
3.18. A nomination facility is available on all deposit accounts opened by the individuals 
including a sole proprietary concern account. Nomination can be made in favor of one 
individual only, which may include a minor as well. Nomination so made can be cancelled 
or changed by the account holder/s any time. While making nomination, cancellation or 
10
change thereof, thumb impressions are required to be witnessed by a third party for those 
accounts without a valid signature captured in account. (Signatures of Account holders 
need not be attested by witnesses). Nomination can be modified with the consent of 
account holder/s. Bank recommends that all depositors avail nomination facility. The 
nominee, in the event of death of the depositor/s, would receive the balance outstanding 
in the account as a trustee of legal heirs. The depositor will be informed of the advantages 
of the nomination facility while opening a deposit account. Unless the customer prefers not 
to nominate, (this may be recorded, without giving scope for conjecture of non-compliance) 
nomination should be a rule, to cover all existing and new accounts. Bank’s Policy on 
Settlement of Claims covers in detail the settlement of claims with or without nomination.
3.19. The regulatory guidelines require banks to categorize customers based on risk 
perception and prepare profiles of customers for the purpose of transaction monitoring. 
The inability or unwillingness of a prospective customer to provide necessary information 
/ details could result in the bank not opening an account. The inability of an existing 
customer to furnish details required by the bank to fulfill statutory obligations could also 
result in closure of the account after due notice(s) is provided to the customer. The Bank’s 
policy prescriptions and procedure for client risk categorization are covered in the Policy 
on Combating Financial Crime.
3.20. Based on the customer request, the Bank at its discretion will sanction sweep facility 
in savings and current accounts at applicable interest rates prevailing for respective 
tenure.
3.21. Deposit accounts can be opened by an individual in his own name (known as account 
in single name) or by more than one individual in their own names (known as Joint 
Account), as the case may be.
3.22. Submission of GSTIN: To avail input tax credit, the Bank recommends submission of 
GSTIN for updation of the same in the Bank records.
3.23. In case of failure to submit PAN, the Bank shall take necessary action as required 
under the applicable rules.
4. OPERATION OF ACCOUNTS
4.1. Accounts can be opened in single names or joint names; they can also be operated 
singly or jointly as per the instructions given by the customer at the time of opening the 
account or given/amended thereafter from time to time.
4.2. The Joint Account opened by more than one individual can be operated by any single 
individual or jointly by more than one individual. The mandate for operating the account 
can be modified with the consent of all account holders. The Savings Bank Account 
opened by minor jointly with natural guardian / guardian can be operated by natural 
guardian / guardian only.
4.3. The joint account holders can give any of the following mandates for the disposal of 
balance in the accounts: 
11
4.3.1 Either or Survivor: If the account is held by two individuals say, A & B, the final 
balance along with interest, if applicable, will be paid to the survivor on death 
of anyone of the account holder.
4.3.2 Anyone or Survivor/s: If the account is held by more than two individuals say, 
A, B and C, the final balance along with interest, if applicable, will be paid to 
the survivor on death of any two account holders. Similarly, operation by ‘former 
or survivor’, ‘Latter or survivor’ etc. are also permitted. In the case of term 
deposits, such mandates will be applicable to or become operational only on 
or after the date of maturity of term deposits. This mandate can be modified by 
the consent of all the account holders. According to RBI, the joint account 
holder facility may be extended to all types of resident accounts including 
savings bank accounts. While extending this facility, the banks should satisfy 
itself about the actual need for such a facility and also obtain a declaration, duly 
signed by the non-resident account holder. However, such non- resident Indian 
close relatives shall not be eligible to operate the account during the lifetime of 
the resident account holder.
4.3.3 RBI has permitted NRIs/PIOs to open NRE SB accounts with resident close 
relatives on Former or Survivor(F/S) basis, wherein the first holder in the 
account should invariably be NRI/PIO (Relatives as defined in Companies act 
,2013). The resident survivor can operate the account only as a power of 
attorney holder during the lifetime of the NRI /PIO account holder.
4.3.4 The bank may at the request of all the joint account holders allow addition or 
deletion of name/s of joint account holder/s if the circumstances so warrant or 
allow an individual depositor to add the name of another person as a joint 
account holder.
4.3.5 In case of addition / deletion of joint holders at the request of the account 
holder/s, the bank must take utmost care to suitably modify the specimen 
signatures of the operators in tune with the change in constitution of the 
account to avoid fraudulent operations.
4.3.6 At the request of the depositor, the Bank may register a mandate / power of 
attorney given by him authorizing another person to operate the account on his 
behalf.
4.3.7 The Domestic, NRE & NRO Rupee Term Deposits can be opened for the 
minimum and maximum period as decided by ALCO from time to time, subject to 
the period permitted by RBI and subject to the categories of deposits as stipulated 
by RBI.
4.3.8 The Term Deposit Account holders at the time of placing their deposits can give 
instructions with regard to closure of the Deposit Account or renewal of deposit 
for a further period on the date of maturity. Unless otherwise instructed, term 
deposits other than specific deposit schemes like non-callable deposit, Rupee 
Plus and recurring deposits will be automatically renewed for an identical period 
as that of the original deposit on the date of maturity.
4.3.9 Even if the customer's instruction was for auto renewal at the time of deposit 
opening, if the customer's status is KYC-non complied at the time of deposit 
maturity, the deposit may be converted to overdue deposit status.
12
4.3.10 Recurring deposits will not be automatically renewed. On maturity, the 
customer will be paid a lump sum amount which includes the regular, periodic 
investments and the interest earned on them and the maturity amount will be 
credited to the operative account of the customer. In case there is no such 
operative account, the proceeds will be transferred to ‘overdue deposits’ 
account. In the case of default in installments, nominal penal charge will be 
taken, and the maturity amount will be reduced to the extent of defaulted 
amount and penal charge.
4.3.11 A statement of account will be provided by the Bank to Savings Bank as well 
as Current Deposit Account Holders periodically as per terms and conditions 
of the relevant deposit scheme. Alternatively, the Bank may issue a Passbook 
in lieu of statement of account to Savings Bank account holders, particularly 
when requested by the customer.
4.3.12 Deposit accounts which include SB, CD and Term Deposit accounts may be 
transferred to any other branch of the Bank at the request of the depositor at 
no cost to the depositor. The account transfer form will be issued to the 
customer from the transferring branch or transferee branch with approval of the 
home branch on submission of passbook and other required documents as 
intimated by the branch officials.
4.3.13 Any changes in service charges will be made available to all depositors in 
advance with one month’s notice through the Bank’s website and / or through 
mail. / or through SMS or any other means of communication available. 
However, in case of changes due to regulatory requirements the Bank may 
reduce the notice period with reasons recorded and publicized.
4.3.14 The rate of interest to be paid on the overdue term deposits shall be subject to 
the stipulation contained in the Interest rate framework. If a Term Deposit (TD) 
matures and proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unclaimed with the bank 
shall attract a rate of interest as applicable to savings account or the contracted 
rate of interest on the matured TD, whichever is lower. 
5. STOP PAYMENT FACILITY
The Bank will accept stop payment instructions from the depositors in respect of Cheques 
issued by them. A customer or a person having authority to draw cheques shall submit a 
notice of stop payment of cheques. In case of joint accounts, partnership accounts, 
accounts of companies, associations, etc., where Cheque is drawn by either a joint 
account holder or one or more of the persons authorized by a resolution, a notice of stop 
payment in the proper manner by any one of authorized drawers or principal party or one 
among the principal parties who appointed the authorized drawers can be accepted. It 
shall be ensured that the instruction is clear, definite and unambiguous. In the same way, 
Customer may revoke a stop payment instruction. Customer shall submit the request in 
writing for revoking stop payment in the Home Branch of account or at the customer 
contact center of the Bank. Charges as prescribed will be collected.
13
6. DISHONOUR OF CHEQUES AND NACH MANDATES 
Dealing with frequent dishonor of Cheques and NACH mandate in Savings and Current 
accounts
6.1 If the number of cheques returns for the reason of insufficient funds reaches three, 
Bank may issue a cautionary advice to the concerned constituent drawing his attention 
to the irregularity and consequential stoppage of cheque facility as well as closure of 
account, in the event of cheque being dishonored on fourth occasion on the same 
account during the financial year.
6.2 If four Cheques are returned in a financial year for the reason of insufficiency of funds, 
bank has the freedom to stop issuance of further cheque books in the account.
6.3 Also, if the cheque is returned four times in a financial year for the reason of 
insufficiency of funds, bank at its discretion can initiate steps to close the account, after 
giving 30 days’ notice to the customer.
6.4 If the NACH debit mandate fails 4 times in a financial year for the reason of insufficiency 
of funds, the bank at its discretion can initiate steps to close the account, after giving 
30 days’ notice to the customer.
7. EXTENSION OF ALTERNATE DELIVERY CHANNELS TO SAVINGS BANK & 
CURRENT DEPOSIT ACCOUNT HOLDERS 
The Bank offers a choice of electronic channels to customers for conducting their banking 
transactions. The choice of electronic channels includes Debit Card, Internet banking and 
Mobile banking inclusive of SMS banking facility, missed call banking, AI powered Virtual 
Assistant and WhatsApp banking. Wherever such electronic facilities are offered as a 
part of the basic account / product, Bank will obtain confirmation from the customer for 
availing the facility. Bank will place per transaction/day limits for such channels based on 
their own risk perception with the necessary approval in the bank. Such limits will be 
communicated to customers also and customers will be given an option in digital touch 
points for modifying the limits as per their convenience but within the approved overall 
limit. The Bank shall not offer facilities of electronic transactions, other than ATM cash 
withdrawals, to customers who do not provide mobile numbers to the Bank.
8. PAYMENT OF INTEREST
8.1 Interest shall be paid on savings account and term deposit at the rate and periodicity as 
decided upon by the Bank from time to time in conformance with the directives specified 
by Reserve Bank of India and ALM Policy of the Bank.
8.2 The interest rates shall be uniform across all branches and for all customers and there 
shall be no discrimination in the matter of interest paid on the deposits, between one 
deposit and another of similar amount, accepted on the same date, for the same tenure, 
at any branches. Interest rates payable on deposits shall be strictly as per the schedule of 
interest rates disclosed.
8.3 In terms of Reserve Bank of India directives, interest shall be calculated at quarterly 
intervals on term deposits and paid at the rate decided by the Bank depending upon the 
period of deposits. In the case of a monthly interest payment scheme, the interest shall be 
14
calculated for the quarter and paid monthly at a discounted value. The interest on term 
deposits is calculated by the Bank in accordance with the required regulatory norms and 
the rates are as displayed on the Bank’s official website.
8.4 The rate of interest on deposits will be prominently displayed in the branch premises. 
Changes, if any, with regard to the deposit schemes and other related services shall also 
be communicated upfront and shall be prominently displayed. All these details will be 
displayed on the Bank’s website also.
8.5 When a term deposit is renewed on maturity, interest rate on renewed deposit for the 
period specified by the depositor as applicable on the date of maturity would be applied. If 
the deposit is not renewed automatically for any reason and if request for renewal of such 
deposit is received after the date of maturity, such overdue deposits will be renewed with 
effect from the date of maturity at interest rate applicable as on the due date, provided 
such request is processed within 14 days from the date of maturity. In respect of overdue 
deposits renewed after 14 days from the date of maturity of the original term deposit, the 
deposit will be treated as fresh deposit from the date of renewal. The interest for the 
overdue period (from the date of maturity of original term deposit to date of renewal) will 
be at rate of interest as applicable to savings account or the contracted rate of interest on 
the matured TD, whichever is lower.
8.6 No interest will be paid, where premature withdrawal of deposits takes place before 
completion of the minimum period as decided by ALCO from time to time, subject to the 
minimum period permitted by RBI for Resident, NRO, NRE & FCNR (B) term deposits.
8.7 The Bank has statutory obligation to deduct tax at source if the total interest paid / payable 
on all term deposits held by a person exceeds the amount specified under the Income Tax 
Act. The Bank will issue a tax deduction certificate (TDS Certificate) for the amount of tax 
deducted. The depositor, if entitled to exemption from TDS can submit declaration in the 
prescribed format at the beginning of every financial year.
8.8 INTEREST RATES ON RUPEE DEPOSITS-NON-RESIDENTS
Interest on deposits of money accepted or renewed under NRE/NRO deposit scheme shall be 
on the terms and conditions specified below.
(a) The interest rates shall be subject to the conditions as per the - ALM Policy of the Bank.
(b) Interest rates on savings deposits under Non-Resident (External) Rupee (NRE) 
Deposit / Ordinary Non-Resident (NRO) Deposits shall be in accordance with the 
directions below.
Interest on domestic rupee savings deposits shall be calculated on a daily product basis 
as under:
i. A uniform interest rate shall be set on balance up to Rupees one lakh, irrespective of 
the amount in the account within this limit.
ii. Differential rates of interest may be provided for any end-of-day savings bank 
balance exceeding Rupees one lakh.
15
(c) Interest rates on NRE/NRO term deposits shall vary only on account of one or more of 
the following reasons:
(i) Tenure of Deposits: - Bank will offer term deposit with different maturity/tenure of 
the deposit, subject to the condition that minimum period of NRE and NRO term 
deposits shall be decided by ALCO subject to the minimum period permitted by RBI 
from time to time.
(ii) Size of Deposits: - Differential interest rate shall be offered only on bulk deposits
(iii) Non-availability of Premature withdrawal option: - Bank will offer NRE / NRO term 
deposits without premature withdrawal option, provided that all NRE / NRO term 
deposits accepted from individuals (held singly or jointly) for amount of Rupees one 
crore and below shall have premature-withdrawal-facility.
(d) Interest rates on NRE/ NRO deposits shall not be higher than those offered by the 
Bank on comparable domestic rupee term deposits.
(e) The benefit of additional interest rate on deposits on account of being bank’s own staff 
or senior citizens shall not be available to NRE and NRO deposits.
(f) Interest on savings deposits shall be credited at quarterly or shorter intervals.
(g) If an NRE account holder, immediately on return to India, requests for conversion of 
the NRE term deposit into Resident Foreign Currency Account (RFC), interest shall be 
paid as under: 
(i) if the NRE deposit has not run for a minimum period as decided by ALCO subject 
to the minimum period permitted by RBI from time to time, interest shall be paid at a 
rate not exceeding the rate payable on savings deposits held in RFC accounts.
(ii) In all other cases, interest shall be paid at the contracted rate.
Prohibition on marking lien
Bank shall not mark any type of lien, direct or indirect, against NRE saving deposits.
9. PREMATURE WITHDRAWAL / CLOSURE OF TERM DEPOSITS
9.1 The Bank on request from the depositor, at its discretion may allow withdrawal of 
term deposit before completion of the period of deposit agreed upon at the time of 
placing the deposit, at a penalty prescribed by the Bank from time to time, which will 
be disclosed to the customer at the time of opening the deposit. In the case of a 
deposit account opened as either-or survivor, signature of both the account holders 
are required for premature closure of the account.
9.2 In case the depositor desires to renew the deposit by seeking premature closure of 
an existing term deposit account, the Bank will permit the renewal at the applicable 
rate on the date of renewal. While prematurely closing a deposit for the purpose of 
renewal, interest on the deposit for the period it has remained with the bank will be 
paid at the rate applicable to the period for which the deposit remained with the bank 
after debiting the applicable premature closure charges and not at the contracted 
rate. The bank, on request from the depositor, shall allow withdrawal of a term 
deposit before completion of the period of the deposit agreed upon at the time of 
16
making the deposit. However, the bank, at its discretion, may disallow premature 
withdrawal of large deposits held by entities other than individuals and Hindu 
Undivided Families (HUFs). The interest rates applicable on term deposits 
withdrawn before the maturity date shall be as under:
• Interest shall be paid at the rate applicable to the amount and period for which 
the deposit remained with the bank and not at the contracted rate.
• No interest shall be paid, where premature withdrawal of deposits takes place 
before completion of the minimum period applicable for the deposit scheme.
• The bank has the freedom to determine its own penal interest rate in respect of 
premature withdrawal of term deposits. The bank ensures that the depositors are 
made aware of the applicable penal rate along with the deposit rate.
9.3 In the case of term deposits of deceased depositors, premature closure of term 
deposits would be allowed, and such premature withdrawal would not attract any 
penal charges.
10. INSURANCE COVER FOR DEPOSITS
All bank deposits are covered under the insurance scheme offered by Deposit Insurance 
and Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (DICGC) subject to certain limits and 
conditions. The details of the insurance cover in force will be made available to the 
depositor. Protection cover is extended to deposits such as savings bank, current, term 
and recurring deposits except:
a. Deposits of foreign Governments
b. Deposits of Central/State Governments
c. Inter-bank deposits
d. Deposits of the State Land Development Banks with the State co-operative bank
e. Any amount due on account of and deposit received outside India
f. Any amount, which has been specifically exempted by the corporation with the 
previous approval of Reserve Bank of India 
11. LOAN AGAINST DEPOSITS
The Bank may consider request of the depositor/s for loan against term deposits (AADAdvance against Deposit, / overdraft facility against term deposits (Federal Easy Cash 
Scheme). Such loans or overdrafts are provided on execution of necessary security 
documents. The Bank may also consider loan against deposit standing in the name of 
minor, however, a suitable declaration stating that loan is for the benefit of the minor, is 
to be furnished by the depositor – applicant and bank is convinced of the bona fides of 
the request. The detail of the term deposit against which the loan/advance is being 
availed is to be clearly mentioned in the application form. Signature of all joint holders to 
be obtained in the case of term deposit/s opened in joint names. AAD/OD against deposit 
can also be opened/closed through digital platforms Here only the login credentials for 
the electronic facility are required. The amount will be credited to the operative account 
of the account holder. Such facility of loan will be offered in specific schemes based on 
features available and the details will be made available to the depositor.
17
12. SETTLEMENT OF DUES IN DECEASED DEPOSIT ACCOUNT
Settlement of dues in deceased accounts shall be guided by the Policy on Settlement of 
Claims framed as per the IBA model policy and the provisions below shall always be 
aligned to the said Policy. In the case of deposit accounts where the depositor had utilized 
the nomination facility and made a valid nomination or where the account was opened 
with the survivors provided: ("either or survivor", or "anyone or survivor", or "former or 
survivor" or "latter or survivor"), the payment of the balance in the deposit account to the 
survivor(s)/nominee of a deceased deposit account holder represents a valid discharge 
of the bank's liability provided :
I. The bank has exercised due care and caution in establishing the identity of the 
survivor(s) / nominee and the fact of death of the account holder, through appropriate 
documentary evidence.
II. There is no order from the competent court restraining the bank from making the 
payment from the account of the deceased; and
III. It has been made clear to the survivor(s) / nominee that he would be receiving the 
payment from the bank as a trustee of the legal heirs of the deceased depositor, i.e., 
such payment to him shall not affect the right or claim which any person may have 
against the survivor(s) / nominee to whom the payment is made.
12.1 In a joint deposit account, when one of the joint account holders dies, the Bank 
is required to make payment jointly to the legal heirs of the deceased person and the 
surviving depositor(s). However, if the joint account holders had given mandate for 
disposal of the balance in the account in the forms such as either-or survivor, former 
/ latter or survivor, anyone of survivors or survivor; etc., the payment will be made as 
per the mandate to avoid delays in production of legal papers by the heirs of the 
deceased.
12.2 In the event of death of both/all joint accountholders where there is no 
registered nomination, the balance outstanding will be paid jointly to the legal heirs 
(or any of them as mandated by all the legal heirs).
12.3 In the absence of nomination and when there are no disputes among the 
claimants, the Bank will pay the amount outstanding in the account of deceased 
person against joint application and indemnity by all legal heirs or the person 
mandated by the legal heirs to receive the payment on their behalf without insisting 
on legal documents up to the limit approved by the bank’s board. 
12.4 In the event of death of the depositor before the date of maturity of deposit and 
amount of the deposit is claimed after the date of maturity, the Bank shall pay interest 
at the contracted rate till the date of maturity. From the date of maturity to the date of 
payment, the Bank shall pay simple interest at the applicable rate as on the date of 
maturity, for the period for which the deposit remained with the Bank beyond the date 
of maturity. If the deposit is closed before the maturity date, interest on the deposit 
for the period it has remained with the bank will be paid at the rate applicable to the 
period for which the deposit remained with the bank and not at the contracted rate 
upon request from survivors/Nominee to the deposit.
18
12.5 However, in the case of death of the depositor after the date of maturity of the 
deposit, the bank shall pay interest at savings deposit rate for the maturity value from 
the date of maturity till the date of payment.
SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF MISSING PERSONS
As per Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (section 107 and 108) presumption of death can be 
raised only after a lapse of seven years from the date of person reported as “missing”.
As such, nominee / legal heirs have to raise an express presumption of death of the 
customer, under section 107 / 108 of the Indian Evidence Act before a competent court. 
If the court presumes that he / she is dead, then the claim in respect of a missing person 
can be settled with consultation of Legal department of Bank.
Interest payable on the NRE term deposit account of deceased depositor
In case the claimants of an NRE term deposit account of a deceased depositor are 
residents, the deposit on maturity shall be treated as a domestic rupee term deposit and 
interest shall be paid for the subsequent period at a rate applicable to a domestic term 
deposit of similar maturity.
13. INOPERATIVE ACCOUNTS
13.1. A Savings / Current account shall be classified as “Inoperative account‟ if there 
are no customer induced transactions in the account as defined by the RBI guidelines.
13.2.The credit balance in any deposit account maintained with the Bank, which has not 
been operated upon for ten years or more, or any amount remaining unclaimed for ten 
years or more as per the Depositor Education and Awareness (DEA) Fund Scheme 
2014. 
13.3.Bank will pursue the following procedure for classification of accounts as inoperative 
accounts
13.3.1 Bank shall undertake at least an annual review in respect of accounts, where 
there are no customer induced transactions as defined by the RBI guidelines for 
more than a year. In cases where there is no explicit mandate to renew the term 
deposit, the bank should review such accounts if the customers have not 
withdrawn the proceeds after maturity or transferred these to their 
savings/current account in order to prevent such deposits from becoming 
unclaimed. The bank shall inform the account/deposit holders in writing through 
letters or email or SMS (if the email and mobile number are registered with the 
bank) that there has been no operation in their accounts/deposits in the last 
one year, as the case may be. The alert messages shall invariably mention that 
the account would become ‘inoperative’ if no operations are carried out during 
the next one year and, the account holder would be required to submit KYC 
documents afresh for reactivating the account in such case.
13.3.2 If the letters are returned undelivered or no response is received through 
registered email, the bank shall immediately undertake an enquiry to find out 
19
the whereabouts of account holder or his/her nominee/legal heirs in case the 
account holder is deceased.
13.3.3 In case any response is received from the account holder giving the reasons 
for not operating the account, the bank shall continue to classify the account as 
operative for one more year and the account holder shall be advised to operate 
the account within a period of one year (herein after referred to as ‘extended 
period’). In case the account holder still fails to operate the account within the 
extended period, the bank shall classify the said account as inoperative account 
after the expiry of the extended period.
13.3.4 For the purpose of classifying an account as ‘inoperative’, only customer 
induced transactions and not bank induced transactions shall be considered. 
There may be instances where the customer has been given a mandate like 
Standing Instructions (SI)/ auto-renewal instructions and there are no other 
operations in the Savings /Current account or the Term Deposit. These 
transactions shall also be treated as customer induced transactions. Apart from 
the above, any additional transactions in the account, as notified by the Reserve
Bank of India to establish the status of the account as inoperative will be duly 
considered.
13.3.5 The classification of an account as inoperative shall be for a particular account 
of the customer and not with reference to the customer. In case a customer is 
maintaining multiple accounts/deposits with a bank, all such accounts/deposits 
shall be assessed individually for the purpose of classifying them as inoperative 
account/ unclaimed deposit, as the case may be.
13.3.6 In case the account holder is not carrying out transaction and the account is -
inoperative due to shifting of primary account to another bank, the account 
holder may be requested to provide the details of the new bank account with 
authorisation to enable the bank to transfer the balance from the existing bank 
account.
13.3.7 Category of accounts (Eg. Zero Balance accounts for receiving scholarships/ 
DBT etc) , notified by the Reserve Bank of India, from time to time, will be 
excluded from the stipulation of inoperative account.
13.4 Periodic interest, if any, shall be credited to inoperative accounts.
13.5 Tracing of Customers of Inoperative Accounts/ Unclaimed Deposits
13.5.1 The bank shall contact the holder(s) of the inoperative account/ unclaimed 
deposit through letters, email or SMS (if the email and mobile number are registered 
with the bank). The email/ SMS shall be sent on a quarterly basis.
13.5.2 In case the whereabouts of the holder(s) of the inoperative account/ unclaimed 
deposit are not traceable, the bank shall contact the introducer, if any, who had 
introduced the account holder to the bank at the time of opening of the account. The 
bank shall also contact the nominee, if registered, for tracing the customer.
13.5.3 The bank shall undertake special drives periodically to find out the whereabouts 
of the customers, their nominees or legal heirs in respect of inoperative accounts / 
unclaimed deposits.
20
13.6 Activation of Inoperative Accounts
13.6.1 The bank shall make available the facility of updation of KYC for activation of 
inoperative accounts/ unclaimed deposits at all branches (including non-home 
branches). Other modes of KYC updation for revival of dormant accounts will 
be added in due course as per the latest guidelines from the regulator.
13.6.2 The bank shall activate the inoperative accounts/ unclaimed deposits, including 
those which are under freeze by orders of various agencies like Courts, 
Tribunals, Law Enforcement Agencies, only after adhering to the RBI guidelines 
on KYC and Bank’s Policy on Combating Financial Crime. 
13.6.3 The bank is in the process of implementing automatic intimation to the 
customers through SMS and email stating that on the basis of the KYC 
documents submitted by them, the inoperative status of the account has been 
removed. The banks shall process the requests for activation of inoperative 
account/ unclaimed deposits within three working days from the receipt of the 
complete application.
13.6.4 The bank will not levy penal charges for non-maintenance of minimum balances 
in any account that is classified as an inoperative account. No charges will be 
levied for activation of inoperative accounts.
13.6.5 The Bank shall not allow any debit transaction in an inoperative account unless 
there is a customer induced activation of the account. Further, Bank may apply 
a cooling-off period on reactivation of the account, where restrictions on the 
number and amount of transactions may imposed during the cooling-off period.
14. UNCLAIMED DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
RBI had established guidelines for a mechanism for periodic transfer of unclaimed 
deposits to Depositor education and awareness fund scheme (DEAF) as well as 
settlement of refund claims related to inoperative accounts. Bank shall host the details of 
unclaimed deposits {only name, address (without pin code) and Unclaimed Deposit 
Reference Number (UDRN)}, which have been transferred to DEA Fund of RBI on their 
respective websites, which shall be updated regularly, at least on a monthly basis. The 
database hosted on the website shall provide a search option to enable the public to 
search for their unclaimed deposits using name in combination with the address of the 
account holder/ entity. In case such accounts are not in the name of individuals, the 
names of individuals authorized to operate the accounts shall also be indicated. 
CUSTOMER AWARENESS
The banks shall provide on their website as well as at their branches, the information on 
the process for activation of the inoperative account/ unclaimed deposits and claiming 
the balances therein. Necessary claim forms and documents may be made available for 
the benefit of customers. The banks shall conduct public awareness and financial literacy 
campaigns regularly to educate the members of public about the activation of inoperative 
accounts/unclaimed deposits and the prescribed procedure to claim amounts lying 
therein by a depositor or his/her nominee/ legal heir in case of deceased depositor.
21
15. CONFIDENTIALITY OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION
15.1 Customer Information: The customer information collected from the customers shall 
not be used for cross selling of services or products by the Bank, their subsidiaries 
and affiliates. If the Bank proposes to use such information, it will be with the consent 
of the account holder.
15.2 Secrecy of Customer’s Accounts: The Bank shall not disclose details / particulars of 
the customer’s account to a third person or party without the expressed or implied 
consent from the customer. However, there are some exceptions, viz. disclosure of 
information under the compulsion of law, where there is a duty to the public to disclose 
and where the interest of the Bank requires disclosure.
15.3 The protection of personal data of customers, including permitted disclosures shall 
be as guided by the Digital Protection of Personal Data (DPDP) Act as and when the 
Act, Rules and Regulations are in force. 
16. REDRESSAL OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
The bank has got a Grievance Redressal Policy, which is published on the bank website. 
Depositors having any complaint / grievance with regard to services rendered by the Bank 
have a right to approach authority(ies) designated by the Bank for handling customer 
complaint / grievances. The details of the internal officers set up for redressal of 
complaints/grievances will be available in the branches. The branch officials will provide 
the required information regarding procedure for lodging the complaint. In case the 
depositor does not get response from the Bank within 30 days of lodging a complaint with 
us or is not satisfied with the response received from the Bank, he has a right to approach 
Banking Ombudsman appointed by Reserve Bank of India
17. SECURED CREDIT CARD BASED ON FIXED DEPOSIT
A Secured credit card against Term deposit will be issued to a resident customer in 
exchange for a term deposit that he pledges as a security for the card. The credit limit of 
a secured credit card will be decided based on the criteria set by the bank for secured 
credit cards. The Cardholder shall be required to place the term deposits in the manner 
specified and upon execution of the relevant documents as specified by the Bank from 
time to time. Upon issuance of the Credit Card, Bank shall mark a lien on the entire amount 
of the term deposit amount. In the event of cancellation of the Card by the Cardholder or 
the Bank, the lien on term deposits linked to Credit Card would be released after adjusting 
of dues by the Cardholder. 
18. POST-FACTO CHANGE IN POLICY MATTERS 
Policy shall stand revised to the extent of changes in any of the guidelines as might be 
advised by RBI /Govt. and any other regulatory bodies from time to time relating to this 
policy.
22
Annexure
Reference circulars from RBI
• Master Circular on Interest Rates on Rupee Deposits held in Domestic, Ordinary NonResident (NRO) and Non-Resident (External) (NRE) Accounts-RBI/2015-16/39--
DBR.No.Dir.BC.7/13.03.00/2015-16 dated 1.7.2015
• Master Circular – 'Know Your Customer' (KYC) Guidelines – Anti Money Laundering 
Standards (AML) - 'Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 - Obligations of NBFCs 
in terms of Rules notified thereunder’--RBI/2015-16/108
DNBR (PD) CC No. 051/03.10.119/2015-16 dated 01.07.2015
• Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate on Deposits) Directions, 2016-
-Master Direction DBR. Dir. No.84/13.03.00/2015-16 dated 03.03.2016
• Master Direction - Know Your Customer (KYC) Direction, 2016--RBI/DBR/2015-16/18
• Master Direction DBR.AML.BC.No.81/14.01.001/2015-16 dated 25.02.2016 
• Master Direction - Deposits and Accounts--RBI/FED/2015-16/9
FED Master Direction No. 14/2015-16 dated 01.01.2016 
• The Depositor Education and Awareness Fund Scheme, 2014 –Section 26A of 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949--RBI/2013-14/614DBOD.No.DEAF 
Cell.BC.114/30.01.002/2013-14 dated 27.05.2014
• RBI Circular – Consolidated Circular on Opening of Current Accounts and CC/OD 
Accounts by Banks RBI/2022-23/27 DOR.CRE.REC.23/21.08.008/2022-23 dated 
April 19, 2022
• Customer Protection – Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorised 
Electronic Banking Transactions dated July 6, 2017
• Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate on Deposits) Directions, 2016 
dated March 03, 2016
• Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 dated April 01, 2016
• Master Circular on Customer Service in Banks dated July 1, 2015
• Inoperative Accounts /Unclaimed Deposits in Banks- Revised Instructions dated 
January 1, 2024
More details on each of the deposit schemes are made available in the bank website 
www.federalbank.co.in