Page 1 of 12
POLICY FOR CUSTOMER GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL
July 2025
Page 2 of 12
POLICY FOR CUSTOMER GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL
1. Introduction
Customer complaints are part of the business life of any corporate entity. This is more so for 
Banks because Banks are service organizations. As a service organization, customer service 
and customer satisfaction is the prime concern of the Bank. The Bank believes that excellence 
in customer service is its prime motto; providing prompt and efficient service should get 
paramount importance in its business policies.
This Policy document aims at minimizing instances of customer complaints and grievances 
through proper service delivery and review mechanism and to ensure prompt redressal of 
customer complaints and grievances. The review mechanism is aimed at helping identification 
of shortcomings in product features and service delivery. Bank is fully aware that customer 
dissatisfaction would spoil Bank’s name and image. The Bank’s Policy on grievance redressal 
follows the under noted principles.
❖ Customers be treated fairly at all times. 
❖ Complaints raised by customers are dealt with courtesy and on time.
❖ Customers are fully informed of avenues to escalate their complaints/grievances within 
the organization and their rights to alternative remedy, if they are not fully satisfied with 
the response of the Bank to their complaints. 
❖ Bank will treat all complaints efficiently and fairly as they can damage the Bank’s 
reputation and business if handled otherwise. 
❖ The Bank employees must work in good faith and without prejudice to the interests of 
the customer.
In order to make Bank’s redressal mechanism more meaningful and effective, a structured 
system has been built up towards such end. Such system would ensure that the redressal 
sought is just and fair and is permissible within the given framework of rules and regulation. 
The Policy document would be made available at all branches. The concerned employees 
shall be made aware about the Complaint handling process.
Definition of a customer complaint
Complaint" means a representation in writing or through other modes alleging deficiency in 
service on the part of the regulated entity and seeking relief there on; "Deficiency in service" 
means a shortcoming or an inadequacy in any service, which the regulated entity is required 
to provide statutorily or otherwise, which may or may not result in financial loss or damage to 
the customer
Customer grievances which are not falling into the category of complaints are further classified 
to request, queries and suggestions based on the nature as per following 
Type Description Examples 
Query A customer's inquiry, clarification, or 
request for action regarding the Bank's 
products, features, or services that 
can be resolved immediately without 
the need for follow-up or additional 
processing. This also includes status 
inquiries about previously lodged 
grievances with the bank. 
• Status of loan application. 
• Inquiry regarding deposit 
interest rate. 
Page 3 of 12
Type Description Examples 
Request Requests from customer that 
necessitate processing by us and will 
be completed with a definite TAT 
(Turnaround Time). 
• Request for a cheque book. 
• Request for registration of 
Mobile alerts. 
• Request for account/Credit 
card closure
 
Suggestion 
/Feedback 
Suggestions or Feedback from 
customers regarding improvement of a 
process/Product. Appreciations 
received from customers are also 
categorized here. 
• Suggestion for a new branch 
or ATM in their location. 
The Bank’s Grievance Redressal Team has a mechanism in place for evaluating the cases 
classified into Query, Request, Suggestion/Feedback to ensure that no complaints are wrongly 
classified into the mentioned buckets. 
2. Internal Machinery to handle Customer complaints/ grievances
2.1 Customer Service Committee of the Board
The Customer Service Committee of the Board shall be responsible for this policy for redressal 
of customer grievances and will examine issues having bearing on the quality of service 
rendered by the Bank.
Customer Service Committee of the Board, shall address the following: -
• Formulation of a Comprehensive Deposit Policy.
• Issues such as the treatment of death of a depositor for operations of his Account 
• Product approval process with a view to suitability and appropriateness 
• Annual survey of depositor satisfaction 
• Tri-enniel audit of such services
Any other issues having a bearing on the quality of customer service rendered.
The bank will make sure that all required regulatory reports and data are submitted to the 
Customer Service Committee of the Board from time to time.
2.2 Standing Committee on Customer Service
Executive Director of the Bank in charge of Service Quality Department (SQD) will chair the 
Standing Committee on Customer Service. Besides two to three senior executives of the Bank, 
the committee would also have two to three eminent non- executive(s) drawn from the public 
as members. The committee should have two customers of the branch as members out of 
which one should be a senior citizen. The committee would have the following functions.
❖ Evaluate feedback on quality of customer service received from various quarters. The 
committee would also review comments/feed-back on customer service and 
implementation of commitments in the Code of Bank’s Commitments to Customers 
received from BCSBI.
❖ The Committee would be responsible to ensure that the Bank is undertaking timely and 
Page 4 of 12
effective implementation of all regulatory instructions regarding customer service. 
Towards this, the committee would obtain necessary feedback to evaluate the actions 
from regional managers/ functional heads.
❖ The committee also would consider unresolved complaints/grievances referred to it by 
functional heads responsible for redressal and offer their advice. 
❖ The committee would submit report on its performance to the Customer Service 
Committee of the Board, at quarterly intervals reviewing the practice and procedure 
prevalent in the Bank and initiate correction action, covering areas reviewed, 
procedure/practice identified and simplified/introduced.
2.3 Branch Level Customer Service Committees
In order to encourage communication between the customers and the Bank at the branch level, 
branch level committees shall be formed with greater involvement of customers. Senior 
citizens, being an important customer segment will get represented in the committee. To 
improve the service, Branch Level Customer Service Committee will meet at least once a 
month. The committee will study complaints and accept suggestions from customers and 
members of the Committee. The committee will find out ways and means of improving 
customer service. The branch level committees will also submit quarterly reports with 
inputs/suggestions to the Standing Committee on Customer Service. Standing Committee will 
examine these inputs and provide relevant feedback to the Customer Service Committee of 
the Board for necessary Policy / procedural action.
2.4 Nodal Officer and other designated officials to handle complaints and grievances
The nodal department for customer service shall be the Service Quality Department (SQD) 
and the Head of SQD shall be the Principal Nodal Officer to handle complaints and grievances 
in the Bank. Each Zonal Office, an officer shall be designated as Nodal officer by the Principal 
Nodal Officer. Regional Heads and Branch Heads shall act as Nodal officers in the respective 
regions and branches.
The name and contact details (complete address, telephone/fax number and email address) 
of nodal officer(s) will be displayed at all branches and made available on the Bank’s website. 
Further, the Bank will designate Nodal Officers wherever necessary, considering the 
Geographical grouping of branches, either consisting of different States in a Single zone, or 
different Zones in a single State. 
2.5 Internal Ombudsman
Under the Internal ombudsman scheme the Bank had appointed Internal Ombudsman (IO) 
and Deputy Internal Ombudsman (DIO)The Scheme is introduced with the object of enabling 
a proper and speedy resolution of complaints of Bank customers at the Bank level by an 
independent apex level authority within the Bank thereby minimizing the number of cases 
referred to Banking Ombudsman of RBI.The IO scheme provides a settlement which may be 
acceptable to the Bank as well as customer. The customer, if not satisfied with the settlement 
offer, will however be at liberty to appeal to the Banking ombudsman of Reserve Bank of India. 
Before wholly or partially rejecting any complaint coming under the jurisdiction of the Internal 
Ombudsman, consultation/concurrence of the Internal Ombudsman shall be ensured by the 
Bank. Internal Ombudsman shall review each complaint and pass appropriate orders, post 
examining the Bank’s response on these complaints considering applicable 
statutory/regulatory position.
Where the Internal Ombudsman overrules the decision of the Bank to reject or partly reject the 
complaint, Bank would disagree with the decision of the Internal Ombudsman only with the 
approval of Competent Authority as defined in Clause 3 (1)(c) of RBI Master Direction on 
Internal Ombudsman, 2023. The Bank’s Executive Director In-charge of customer service for 
Page 5 of 12
banks would be the competent authority for dealing with such cases. In the absence of 
Executive Director, MD & CEO of the Bank would be assigned with the said role.
The complaints which do not fall under the jurisdiction of IO is mentioned as below which do 
not need intervention of IO for rejection by Bank
a) Complaints related to corporate frauds, misappropriation etc., except those resulting 
from deficiency in service, if any, on the part of the Bank. 
b) References in the nature of suggestions and commercial decisions of the Bank. 
However, service deficiencies in cases falling under ‘commercial decisions’ will be valid 
complaints for the Internal Ombudsman. 
c) Complaints / references relating to (i) internal administration, (ii) human resources, or 
(iii) pay and emoluments of staff in the regulated entity.
d) Complaints which have been decided by or are already pending in other fora such as 
the Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, courts, etc. 
e) Disputes for which remedy has been provided under Section 18 of the Credit 
Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005
The Bank will forward all rejected / partially rejected complaints under the categories (a) and 
(b) above to the Internal Ombudsman/s. The Internal Ombudsman shall look for inherent 
deficiency in service in such cases and take a view whether any of these complaints can be 
exempted under (a) and / or (b) above as decided by the Bank.
2.6 Complaints/suggestions box
Complaints/suggestions box is provided at each office of the bank. Further, at every office of 
the bank a notice requesting the customers to meet the branch manager is displayed 
regarding grievances, if the grievances remain unredressed.
2.7 Complaint Book /Register
Complaint book with perforated copies in each set is maintained at each Branches, designed 
so as to instantly provide an acknowledgement to the customers
All Branches are maintaining a separate complaint register in the prescribed format given for 
entering all the complaints/grievances received by them directly or through their Head 
Office/Govt. These registers are maintained irrespective of the fact whether a complaint is 
received or not in the past.
Complaint received in any form, i.e., in writing/email, including those in the complaints 
register are registered/entered in Centralized Complaint management application/portal.
The complaints registers maintained by branches is scrutinized by the concerned Regional 
Manager/Zonal Head during his periodical visit to the branches and his 
observations/comments recorded in the relevant reports.
3. Mandatory display requirements
Bank shall provide –
❖ Appropriate arrangement for receiving complaints and suggestions. 
❖ Code of Bank's commitments to customers/Fair Practice code 
Page 6 of 12
Bank will display the following in Branches
Names of the officials who can be contacted for redressal of complaints, together with their
direct telephone number, fax number, complete address (not Post Box No.) and e-mail
address, etc., for proper and timely contact by the customers and for enhancing the
effectiveness of the redressal machinery .Further we will display the Details of Integrated
Ombudsman scheme and contact details in English, Hindi and regional language at the
respective location of the branch/office and be made available the copy of the scheme for
customer reference.
Bank will display the following in Website
The names and details of the officials at their Head Office / Zonal Offices who can be contacted
for redressal of complaints including the names of the Nodal Officers / Principal Nodal Officers.
Contact details including name, complete address, telephone / fax number, email address, etc.
The complaint form provided hereafter on this policy will be displayed on the homepage along
with the details of the Nodal officers and the complaint lodging portal of the Banking
Ombudsman.
4. Resolution of grievances
Branch Manager is responsible for the resolution of complaints/grievances in respect of 
customer service by the branch. He would be responsible for ensuring closure of all complaints 
received at the branch. It is his foremost duty to see that the complaints are resolved 
completely to the customer’s satisfaction and if the customer is not satisfied, then he should 
be provided with alternate avenues to escalate the issue. If the branch manager feels that it is 
not possible at his level to solve the problem, he/she can refer the case to Zonal Office/Nodal 
Officer for guidance. Similarly, if Zonal office/Nodal Officer finds that they are not able to solve 
the problem such cases may be referred to the Principal Nodal Officer. 
In accordance with the Bank’s Loan Policy, all complaints relating to loans advances will be 
resolved in a judicious and expeditious manner.
In the case of debit/credit card related grievances, the Bank shall also compensate the 
complainant for the loss of his/her time, expenses, financial loss as well as for the harassment 
and mental anguish suffered by him/her for any issues arising due to the fault of the Bank and 
where the grievance has not been redressed in time. Claims received from the cardholder in 
this context shall be reviewed and final decision on compensation taken in accordance with 
the delegated authority levels in the Bank
4.1 Time frame
Complaint shall be seen in the right perspective because they indirectly reveal a weak spot in 
the working of the Bank. Complaint received shall be analyzed from all possible angles. 
Specific time schedule is set up for handling complaints and disposing them at all levels 
including branches, Zonal and head office. Branch manager shall try to resolve the complaint 
within specified time frames, decided by the Bank.
Communication of Bank’s stand on any issue to the customer is a vital requirement. Complaints 
received, which would require some time for examination of issues involved, shall invariably 
be acknowledged promptly.
The bank will ensure that all customer complaints are resolved within 30 days of receipt of
complaint. While the Bank shall endeavor to resolve all complaints in the shortest possible 
time, it is recognized that longer time would be required to resolve complaints relating digital 
Page 7 of 12
transaction disputes such as Point of Sales (POS), E-commerce, Unauthorised electronic 
transactions etc. This is due to the dependency on external parties. Such complaints will be 
resolved within a maximum period of 90 days.
For all the complaints received from the regulators, timelines as mandated by the respective 
regulator will be in force.
If in any case additional time is need for resolution, Bank will inform the reason for delay in 
resolution and will provide expected timeline for resolution 
Complaints received by the Bank directly from customers that relate to third party products will 
be forwarded to the relevant third-party providers by the Service Quality Department. The 
Department will liaise with the third-party providers to ensure satisfactory resolution. Such 
complaints will be resolved within a period of maximum 30 days. 
5. Interaction with customers
The Bank recognizes that customer’s expectation/requirement/grievances can be better 
appreciated through personal interaction with customers by Bank’s staff. Structured customer 
meets such as branch level customer service committee, standing committee on customer 
service periodically will give a message to the customers that the Bank cares for them and 
values their feedback/suggestions for improvement in customer service. Many of the 
complaints arise on account of lack of awareness among customers about Bank services and 
such interactions will help the customers appreciate Banking services better. As for the Bank, 
the feedback from customers received through SMS/Email/Whatsapp/telephonic surveys 
would be valuable input for revising its product and services to meet customer requirements. 
Banks will give wide publicity to the grievance redressal machinery by placing the same on the
Bank’s website and through various other Bank’s channels.
6. Sensitizing operating staff on handling complaints
Staff shall be properly trained for handling complaints. We are dealing with people and hence 
difference of opinion and areas of friction can arise. With an open mind and a smile on the 
face, we shall endeavor to win the customer’s confidence.
Imparting soft skills required for handling irate customers, will be an integral part of the training 
programs. Nodal Officer in charge of Service Quality Department shall ensure that internal 
machinery for handling complaints/grievances operates smoothly and efficiently at all levels. 
He/she will provide feedback on the training needs of staff at various levels to the HR 
Department. Based on this feedback, the HR Department will offer the necessary training to 
the staff.
7. Grievances Redressal Mechanism
The bank has at present facilitated the following channels in our structured mechanism for 
redressal of customers' complaints
In case a customer feels that there is deficiency in the service provided to him/her or Bank has 
not provided any of the services as promised, the customer may reach: 
Channels Modes
Contact Centre • Call our 24-hour customer care.
• Email / chat channels of the Bank. 
Branch The customers may contact the respective branch or 
the Branch Manager for immediate redressal. If the 
customer prefers to file a written complaint, it can be 
Page 8 of 12
Channels Modes
registered as per the format given at the end of this 
Policy. The Branch Manager shall record the 
complaint in the complaint register and shall strive to 
redress the complaint. (Address and contact numbers 
of the branches are displayed in the Bank’s web 
site/Passbook.)
Relationship Manager The customers linked to different relationship banking 
managers under all relevant schemes may contact 
their respective Relationship Managers for immediate 
redressal of the complaints. The Relationship 
managers shall record the complaint and shall strive 
to redress the complaint at the earliest
Whenever a customer approaches us via social media channels, they will receive assistance
to appropriately escalate their grievances to the relevant verticals for prompt and effective
resolution.
Bank has a system of acknowledging the complaints, including the complaints received
through letters / forms. The redressal of complaints emanating from rural areas and those
relating to financial assistance to Priority Sector and Government’s Poverty Alleviation
programmes will also part above mentioned mechanism.
The Head of the Service Quality department would be the Principal Nodal Officer for redressal 
of customer complaints.
7.1 Escalation matrix for customer grievances
 
Level 1 • Branch
• Contact Centre
• Relationship Manager
Level 2 • Nodal Officer of the Bank
Level 3 • Principal Nodal Officer – Head 
Service Quality Department
If the resolution at the current level is not satisfactory, customers can escalate their concerns 
to higher levels. The details of each level including contact details are furnished in the Banks 
website (click), branch notice boards, partner websites and other relevant platforms where the 
Bank is required to publish the grievance redressal mechanism in accordance with RBI 
directives. In case the issue is still not resolved to the satisfaction of the customer, he/she may 
approach the Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman as per Integrated Ombudsman scheme 
2021.
The complaints received at Head office would be probed by the Service Quality Department 
and suitable measures would be taken to redress the grievance. Service Quality Department 
shall also examine the nature of complaints and should initiate necessary corrective measures 
to prevent recurrence of such complaints. All Offices of the Bank shall attend to 
correspondence on matters related to customer complaints with utmost promptness and help 
redressal of the complaints.
For the information of customers, we furnish below the stipulations for filing a complaint with 
Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman. 
i. The complainant, before making a complaint to the Reserve Bank Integrated 
Ombudsman, should have made a written representation to the Bank, and the Bank 
should have either rejected the complaint, or the complainant had not received a reply 
Page 9 of 12
within a period of one month after the complaint was received by the Bank, or the 
complainant was not satisfied with the reply given by the Bank. 
ii. The complaint is made not later than one year after the complainant received Bank’s 
reply to his/her representation or where no reply is received, not later than one year and 
one month after the date of the representation to the Bank. 
iii. The complaint is not in respect of the subject matter, which was settled or dealt with on 
merits by the Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman in any previous proceedings, 
whether or not received from the same complainant or along with one or more 
complainants or one or more parties concerned with the subject matter. 
iv. The complaint does not pertain to the same subject matter for which any proceedings 
before any court, tribunal, arbitrator or any other forum is pending or a decree or Award 
or order has been passed by such court, tribunal, arbitrator or forum. 
v. The complaint is not frivolous or vexatious in nature. 
vi. The complaint is made before the expiry of the period of limitation prescribed under the 
Indian Limitation Act, 1963 for such claims. 
vii.The complainant provides complete information as specified in clause 11 of the
Scheme.
viii. The complaint is lodged by the complainant personally or through an authorised
representative other than an advocate unless the advocate is the aggrieved person.
Procedure for Filing a Complaint with Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman:-
(1) The complaint may be lodged online through the portal designed for the purpose
(https://cms.rbi.org.in).
(2) The complaint may also be submitted through electronic or physical mode to the
Centralised Receipt and Processing Centre as notified by the Reserve Bank. The complaint, if
submitted in physical form, shall be duly signed by the complainant or by 8 the
authorised representative. The complaint shall be submitted in electronic or physical mode in
such format and containing such information as may be specified by Reserve Bank.
Please note that the first point for Redressal of complaints is the Bank itself. The complainants 
may approach Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman only if the complaint is not resolved at 
the Bank level within a month. 
7.2 Grievance Redressal mechanism related to Third party products/Partners
As the business of the Bank is expanding with the distribution of third-party products and with
the engagement of Fintech and other service providers to market and manage the Bank’s own
products and services, the Grievance Redressal Mechanism of the Bank should build suitable
framework to cover such third-party processes as well. All Business and Functional
Departments engaging such third parties shall follow the below guidance, while conducting the
due diligence on third parties, entering into agreements, and operationalising the product and
services offer to the customers. 
a) Complaints redressal on third party products distributed by the Bank:
The customers can raise the complaints related to Third party products distributed bank
with the Bank or partner. Bank will ensure the partner has appropriate grievance
redressal policy and process in place .All complaints received at Bank level will follow
the complaints management process. At partner level Bank will ensure the complaints
Page 10 of 12
are properly recorded and resolved with in timeframe prescribed by regulator.
Corporate review/analysis of all complaints reported at Bank/partner level will be done
by Bank. 
b) Complaints redressal on Products and Services offered in partnership with third
parties or third party service providers
The customers can raise the complaints to the Bank or to the partner. Bank will 
ensure the partner has appropriate grievance redressal policy and process in place.
Bank will ensure the complaints received at both the end is properly resolved and
recorded in timeframe prescribed by Banks Grievance redressal policy. Corporate
review/analysis of all complaints reported at Bank/partner level will be done by
Bank. Annual performance review of third parties and audit carried out by the Bank
shall cover the Grievance Redressal Mechanism of third party is satisfactory.
Appropriate clauses on the obligations of third party in maintaining the grievance
redressal mechanism to the satisfaction of the Regulator/ Bank shall be incorporated
in the Legal Agreement/ Arrangement.
Service Quality Department shall also take corrective measures to avoid; systemic deficiencies
noted, if any shall be immediately acted upon and brought to the attention of the Standing
Committee on Customer Service and Customer Service Committee of the Board.
8. Corporate Analysis and Disclosure of complaints 
Service Quality Department shall consolidate all the complaints received by Bank in 
Branches/offices periodically as per prevailing instructions. Service Quality Department shall 
also take corrective measures to avoid such complaints in future; systemic deficiencies noted, 
if any shall be immediately acted upon and brought to the attention of the Standing Committee 
on Customer Service and Customer Service Committee of the Board. 
Bank will critically examine on an on-going basis as to how Grievances Redressal Machinery 
is working and whether the same has been found to be effective in achieving improvement in 
customer service in different areas. Grievances/complaints relating to congestions in the 
banking premises should be examined by the bank’s internal inspectors/auditors on a 
continuing basis and action taken for augmentation of space, whenever necessary, keeping in 
view the availability of larger accommodation in the same locality at a reasonable rent and 
other commercial considerations.
As per RBI circular dated 27th January 2021 related to Strengthening of Grievance Redress 
Mechanism in Banks. Enhanced disclosures on complaints and grievance redress has been 
implemented. The proforma of disclosure to be made by banks on complaints and grievance 
redress is as below and is part of Bank's Annual report.
Sl.
No. Particulars Previous year
Current 
year
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
2 Number of complaints received during the year
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
3.1. Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from Offices of Ombudsman 
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from 
Office of Ombudsman
5.1. Of which, number of complaints resolved in favour of the 
Bank by Office of Ombudsman
Page 11 of 12
Sl.
No. Particulars Previous year
Current 
year
5.2. Of which, number of complaints resolved through 
conciliation/ mediation/advisories issued by Office of 
Ombudsman
5.3. Of which, number of complaints resolved after Passing of 
Awards by Office of Ombudsman against the bank - -
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated 
time(other than those appealed) - -
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in 
Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 (Previously Banking Ombudsman Scheme, 2006) 
and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
Top Five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers
Grounds of 
complaints,
(i.e. complaints 
relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the 
beginning 
of the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
(decrease) 
in the 
number of 
complaints 
received 
over the 
previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, 
number of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1 2 3 4 5 6
Current Year
Ground 1
Ground 2
Ground 3
Ground 4
Ground 5
Others
Total
Previous Year
Ground 1
Ground 2
Ground 3
Ground 4
Ground 5
Others
Total
Master list of grounds of complaints to be used for disclosure on the top five groundwise receipt of complaints by banks is as below:
1. ATM/Debit Cards 
2. Credit Cards 
3. Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking 
4. Account opening/difficulty in operation of accounts 
5. Mis-selling/Para-banking 
6. Recovery Agents/Direct Sales Agents 
7. Pension and facilities for senior citizens/differently abled 
8. Loans and advances 
9. Levy of charges without prior notice/excessive charges/foreclosure charges 
10. Cheques/drafts/bills 
Page 12 of 12
11. Non-observance of Fair Practices Code 
12. Exchange of coins, issuance/acceptance of small denomination notes and 
coins 
13. Bank Guarantees/Letter of Credit and documentary credits 
14. Staff behavior 
15. Facilities for customers visiting the branch/adherence to prescribed working 
hours by the branch, etc. 
16. Others
This Policy shall be read in conjunction with the Customer Compensation Policy, Policy on 
Customer Protection - Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorized Electronic Banking 
Transaction and Policy on Collection of Cheque/Instruments which are all available at our 
website in the following location https://www.federalbank.co.in/our-commitments.
9. COMPLAINT FORMAT
A complaint form is provided to facilitate complaint submission by customers. The complaint 
form also indicates that the first point for redressal of complaints is the bank itself and that 
complainants may approach the Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman if the complaint is not 
resolved at the bank level within a month. The proforma of complaints form is as below:
1. Name of the Complainant 
2. Address in full (for correspondence)
3. Age 
4. Tel. No.(landline and mobile) 
5. E-mail id if any (Please do not write 
any other person’s e-mail id. Bank will 
not be responsible for any leakage of 
secrecy or for any consequences there 
upon for messages/letters through the 
given e-mail id) 
6. Name of Branch to which the 
complaint is related to 
7. Account Number (if any) 
8. Details of the complaint (Attach 
separate sheet if necessary)
9. Whether you have already taken up 
with the Branch Manager, Regional 
Controller or any other Functionary/ 
Forum 
Place 
Date 
Signature of the Complainant 
If you are not satisfied with the resolution of your complaint or not received resolution within 
30 days, you can approach Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman through the link 
https://cms.rbi.org.in/