CUSTOMER COMPENSATION POLICY
 March 2024
CUSTOMER COMPENSATION POLICY
Introduction
Technological progress in payment and settlement systems and the qualitative changes in 
operational systems and processes that have been undertaken by various players in the 
market have enabled market forces of competition to come into play to improve efficiencies in 
providing better service to the users of the system. It will be the Bank’s endeavour to offer 
services to its customers with best possible utilization of its technology infrastructure. 
Withdrawal of the Reserve Bank of India instructions to Banks on time frame for collection of 
outstation cheques, payment of interest on delayed collection of outstation cheques/ 
instruments, with effect from 1st November 2004, had offered Bank further opportunities to 
increase its efficiency for better performance. This Compensation Policy of the Bank is 
therefore, designed to cover areas relating to unauthorized debiting of account, payment of 
interest to customers for delayed collection of cheques/instruments, payment of cheques after 
acknowledgement of stop payment instructions, remittances within India, foreign exchange 
services, lending, etc. The Policy is based on principles of transparency and fairness in the 
treatment of customers.
The objective of this Policy is to establish a system whereby the Bank compensates the 
customer for any financial loss he/she might incur due to deficiency in service on the part of 
the Bank or any act of omission or commission directly attributable to the Bank. By ensuring 
that the customer is compensated without having to ask for it, the Bank expects instances 
where the customer has to approach Banking Ombudsman or any other Forum for redressal 
to come down significantly.
It is reiterated that the Policy covers only compensation for financial losses which customers 
might incur due to deficiency in the services offered by the Bank which can be measured 
directly and as such the commitments under this Policy are without prejudice to any right the 
Bank will have in defending its position before any forum duly constituted to adjudicate Bankercustomer disputes.
1. Unauthorised / Erroneous Debit
If the Bank raises an unauthorized/erroneous direct debit to an account, the entry will be 
reversed immediately on being informed of the erroneous debit, after verifying the position. In 
the event the unauthorized/erroneous debit results in a financial loss for the customer by way 
of reduction in the minimum balance applicable for payment of interest on savings Bank 
deposit or payment of additional interest to the Bank in a loan account, the Bank will 
compensate the customer for such loss. Further, if the customer suffers any direct financial 
loss incidental to return of a cheque or failure of direct debit instructions due to insufficiency 
of balance on account of the unauthorized/erroneous debit, the Bank will consider 
compensating the customer a part or full of such financial losses, considering various factors.
In case verification of the entry reported to be erroneous by the customer does not involve a 
third party, the Bank shall arrange to complete the process of verification within a maximum 
period of 7 working days from the date of reporting of erroneous debit. In case, the verification 
involves a third party, the Bank shall complete the verification process within a maximum 
period of one month from the date of reporting of erroneous transaction by the customer.
Besides in cases of the above kind:-
(i) In case of any fraud, if the bank is convinced that an irregularity / fraud has been 
committed by its staff towards any constituent, the bank should at once acknowledge 
its liability and pay the just claim, 
(ii) In cases where banks are at fault, the banks should compensate customers without 
demur, and 
(iii) In cases where neither the bank is at fault nor the customer is at fault but the fault 
lies elsewhere in the system related to the electronic banking transactions, then also 
the banks should compensate the customers (up to a limit) as part of Policy 
on Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorised Electronic Banking TransactionsSee Annexure for more details
2. NACH direct debits/other debits to accounts
The Bank will undertake to carry out direct debit/ NACH debit instructions of customers in time, 
subject to rules prescribed by the Bank. In the event the Bank fails to meet such commitments 
customer will be compensated to the extent of any financial loss the customer would incur on 
account of delay in carrying out the instruction/failure to carry out the instructions.
The Bank would debit the customer’s account with any applicable service charge as per the 
schedule of charges notified by the Bank. In the event the Bank levies any charge in violation 
of the arrangement, the Bank will reverse the charges when pointed out by the customer 
subject to scrutiny of agreed terms and conditions. Any consequential financial loss to the 
customer will also be compensated. 
3. Payment of Cheques after Stop Payment Instructions.
In case a cheque is paid after the Bank has acknowledged stop payment instruction, the Bank 
shall reverse the transaction and give value-dated credit to protect the interest of the customer. 
Any consequential financial loss to the customer will be compensated as provided under para 
1 above. Such debits will be reversed within 2 working days of the customer intimating the 
transaction to the Bank.
4. Foreign Exchange Services 
The Bank would not compensate the customer for delays in collection of cheques designated 
in foreign currencies sent to foreign countries as the Bank would not be able to ensure timely 
credit from overseas Banks. It is the Bank’s experience that time for collection of instruments 
drawn on Banks in foreign countries differ, from country to country and even within a country, 
from place to place. The time norms for return of instruments cleared provisionally also vary 
from country to country. Bank however, would consider upfront credit against such instrument 
by purchasing the cheque/instrument, provided the conduct of the account has been 
satisfactory in the past and the Bank is satisfied about the drawer’s credit worthiness and 
about customer’s capability to make good the amount, in case the cheque is returned. 
However, the Bank will compensate the customer for undue delays in affording credit once 
proceeds are credited to the Nostro Account of the Bank with its correspondent. 
Such compensation will be given for delays beyond one week from the date of credit to Nostro 
Account or due date after taking into account normal cooling period stipulated, whichever is 
later. (It should be distinctly understood that crediting to the account of the customer does not 
mean that the amount can be withdrawn, which will be permitted only after the prescribed 
period). The compensation in such cases will be worked out as follows:
a) Interest for the delay in crediting proceeds as indicated in the collection Policy of the Bank 
b) Compensation for any possible loss on account of adverse movement in foreign exchange 
rate
Bank will have the right to debit/reverse any credit given to the customers’ account, at any 
point of time (i.e. without time limit) if it turns out that the credit was fraudulent.
5. Payment of interest for delayed collection of cheques:
Cheques deposited at branch counters and in collection boxes within the branch premises 
before the specified cut-off time will be presented for clearing on the same day. The Bank will 
give credit to the customer account on the same day in which the clearing settlement takes 
place. Withdrawal of amounts so credited would be permitted as per the cheque return 
schedule of the clearing house. As part of the compensation Policy of the Bank, the Bank will 
pay interest to its customer on the amount of collection instruments, in case there is delay in 
giving credit beyond the time period specified. Such interest shall be paid without any demand 
from customers in all types of accounts. There shall be no distinction between instruments 
drawn on the Bank's own branches or on other Banks for the purpose of payment of interest 
on delayed collection.
Interest for delayed collection shall be paid at the following rates:
(a) Savings Bank rate for the period of delay upto 14 days 
(b) Where the delay is beyond 14 days interest will be paid at the rate applicable to for term 
deposit for the respective period. 
(c) In case of extraordinary delay, i.e. delays exceeding 90 days, interest will be paid at the 
rate of 2% above the corresponding Term Deposit rate. 
(d) In the event the proceeds of cheque under collection were to be credited to an 
overdraft/loan account of the customer, interest will be paid at the rate applicable to the loan 
account. For extraordinary delays, interest will be paid at the rate of 2% above the rate 
applicable to the loan account. 
Interest payment as given above would be applicable only for instruments sent for collection 
within India.
6.Compensation for loss of instrument in Transit
The Bank’s compensation Policy for financial loss suffered by the customers due to loss of 
instrument after it has been handed over to the Bank for collection by the customer would also 
be as indicated in our collection Policy. The same is extracted below for information:
Cheques / Instruments lost in transit / in clearing process or at paying Bank’s branch
In respect of cheques lost in transit or in the clearing process or at the paying bank's branch, 
the bank will immediately bring the same to the notice of the account holder so that account 
holder can inform the drawer to record stop payment and can also take care that other 
cheques issued by him are not dishonoured due to non-credit of the amount of the lost 
cheques / instruments.
The onus of such loss lies with the collecting banker and not the accountholder.
The bank would reimburse the accountholder related expenses for obtaining duplicate 
instruments and also interest for reasonable delays occurred in obtaining the same.
If the cheque / instrument has been lost at the paying bank's branch, the collecting banker 
should have a right to recover the amount reimbursed to the customer for the loss of the 
cheque / instrument from the paying banker.
Bank will compensate the customer in respect of instruments lost in transit in the following 
way
i. In case intimation regarding loss of instrument is conveyed to the customer beyond the time 
limit stipulated for collection, interest will be paid for the period exceeding the stipulated 
collection period at the rates specified above 
ii. In addition, Bank will pay interest on the amount of the cheque for a further period of 15 
days at Savings Bank rate to provide for likely further delay in obtaining duplicate 
cheque/instrument and collection thereof. 
iii. The Bank would also compensate the customer for any reasonable charges, he/she incurs 
for getting duplicate cheque/instrument upon production of receipt, in the event the instrument 
is to be obtained from a Bank/institution who would charge a fee for issue of duplicate 
instrument. 
7. Issue of Duplicate Draft and Compensation for delays
Duplicate draft, in lieu of lost draft, up to and including 5,000/- may be issued to the 
purchaser on the basis of adequate indemnity and without insistence on seeking non payment 
advice from drawee office irrespective of the legal position obtaining in this regard.
Bank will issue duplicate Demand Draft to the customer within a fortnight from the receipt of 
such request. Further, for the delay beyond this stipulated period, banks will pay interest at 
the rate applicable for fixed deposit of corresponding maturity in order to compensate the 
customer for such delay. The period of fortnight prescribed would be applicable only in cases 
where the request for duplicate demand draft is made by the purchaser or the beneficiary and 
would not be applicable in the case of third party endorsements.
8. Violation of the Code by Bank’s agent
In the event of receipt of any complaint from the customer that the Bank’s representative / 
courier or DSA has engaged in any improper conduct or acted in violation of the Code of 
Bank’s Commitment to Customers which the Bank has adopted voluntarily, the Bank is 
committed to investigate the matter and endeavor to communicate the findings to the customer 
within 7 working days from the date of receipt of complaint and wherever justified, compensate 
the customer for financial loss, if any , as contemplated under this Policy.
9. Responsible Lending Conduct – Release of Movable / Immovable Property 
Documents on Repayment/ Settlement of Personal Loans
The Bank shall release all the original movable / immovable property documents and remove 
charges registered with any registry within a period of 30 days after full repayment/ settlement 
of the loan account.
Compensation for delay in release of Movable / Immovable Property Documents
In case of delay in releasing of original movable / immovable property documents or failing 
to file charge satisfaction form with relevant registry beyond 30 days after full repayment/ 
settlement of loan, Bank will communicate to the borrower reasons for such delay. In case 
where the delay is attributable to the Bank it shall compensate the borrower at the rate of 
₹5,000/- for each day of delay.
In case of loss/damage to original movable / immovable property documents, either in part 
or in full, the Bank will assist the borrower in obtaining duplicate/certified copies of the 
movable / immovable property documents and shall bear the associated costs, in addition to 
paying compensation as indicated above. However, in such cases, an additional time of 30 
days will be available to the Bank to complete this procedure and the delayed period penalty 
will be calculated thereafter (i.e., after a total period of 60 days).
10. Compensation for delay in credit/return in RTGS /NEFT System
In case if not possible to credit the funds to the beneficiary customer’s account for any reason, 
the funds received by the RTGS member bank will be returned to the originating bank within 
one hour of receipt of the payment at the Payment Interface (PI) or before the end of the RTGS 
Business Day, whichever is earlier. Any delay in returning the failed payment, the originating 
customer is eligible to receive compensation at current repo rate plus 2%.
If the NEFT transaction is not credited or returned within two hours after batch settlement, then 
the bank is liable to pay penal interest to the affected customer at the current RBI LAF Repo 
Rate plus two percent for the period of delay / till the date of credit or refund, as the case may 
be, is afforded to the customers' account without waiting for a specific claim to be lodged by 
the customer in this regard.
11. The issue of unsolicited credit cards / upgradation and closure
In case, an unsolicited credit card is issued / existing card upgraded and activated without the 
explicit consent of the recipient and the latter is billed for the same, the Bank would not only 
reverse the charges forthwith, but also pay a penalty without demur to the recipient amounting 
to twice the value of the charges reversed. In addition, the person in whose name the card is 
issued can also approach the RBI Ombudsman who would determine the amount 
of compensation payable by the card-issuer to the recipient of the unsolicited card as per the 
provisions of the Ombudsman Scheme, i.e., for loss of complainant's time, expenses incurred, 
harassment and mental anguish suffered by him / her.
Any loss arising out of misuse of such unsolicited cards would be the responsibility of the Bank 
only and the person in whose name the card has been issued shall not be held responsible 
for the same.
The compensation provided under these directions shall be without prejudice to the rights of 
a borrower to get any other compensation as per any applicable law.
Unsolicited loans or other credit facilities would not be offered to the credit cardholders without 
seeking explicit consent. In case an unsolicited credit facility is extended without the 
written/explicit consent of the cardholder and the latter objects to the same, the Bank would 
not only withdraw the facility, but also be liable to pay such penalty as may be considered 
appropriate by the RBI Ombudsman, if approached.
Any request for closure of a credit card would be honoured within seven working days by the 
Bank, subject to payment of all dues by the cardholder. Subsequent to the closure of credit 
card, the cardholder shall be immediately notified about the closure through email, SMS, 
etc. Failure on the part of the Bank to complete the process of closure within seven working 
days shall result in a penalty of ₹500 per day of delay payable to the customer, till the closure 
of the account provided there is no outstanding in the account.
12. Force Majeure
The Bank shall not be liable to compensate customers for delayed credit if some unforeseen 
event (including but not limited to civil commotion, sabotage, lockout, strike or other labour 
disturbances, accident, fires, natural disasters or other "Acts of God", war, damage to the 
Bank’s facilities or of its correspondent Bank(s), absence of the usual means of 
communication or all types of transportation, etc beyond the control of the Bank prevents it 
from performing its obligations within the specified service delivery parameters.
13. Compensation to customers for delayed updation/ rectification of credit information
Complainants shall be entitled to a compensation of ₹100 per calendar day in case their 
complaint is not resolved within a period of thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the initial 
filing of the complaint by the complainant with the Bank.
Bank shall pay compensation to the complainant if the Bank has failed to send updated credit 
information to the Credit Information Companies (CICs) by making an appropriate correction 
or addition or otherwise within twenty-one (21) calendar days of being informed by the 
complainant or a CIC.
The complainant shall be advised by the Bank of the action taken on the complaint in all cases, 
including the cases where the complaint has been rejected. In cases of rejection, the reasons 
for rejection shall also be provided by the Bank.
Where the complaint has been received and registered by the Bank and there has been a 
delay in the resolution of the complaint, the Bank will inform the concerned CIC(s) and the 
complainant after the final resolution, regarding total delay (in calendar days) and the amount 
of compensation to be paid by the Bank and/ or CIC(s). The date of the resolution of the 
grievance shall be the date when the rectified Credit Information Report (CIR) has been sent 
by the CIC or the Bank to the postal address or email ID provided by the complainant.
The Bank will make appropriate provision in their complaint submission format (both online 
and offline) for enabling the complainant to submit the contact details, email ID, and bank 
account details/ Unified Payment Interface (UPI) ID for crediting the compensation amount. 
The onus of providing accurate details will lie with the complainant and the Bank will not be 
held responsible for any incorrect information provided by the complainant. The compensation 
amount shall be credited to the bank account of the complainant within five (5) working days 
of the resolution of the complaint.
The complainant can approach RBI Ombudsman, under the Reserve Bank - Integrated 
Ombudsman Scheme, 2021, in case of wrongful denial of compensation by Cis.
The compensation framework will come into effect from April 26,2024.
14. Transaction of “at par instruments” of Co-operative Banks by Commercial 
Banks
The bank will not honour cheques drawn on current accounts maintained by other banks 
with it unless arrangements are made for funding cheques issued. Issuing bank should 
be responsible to compensate the cheque holder for non payment/delayed payment of 
cheques in the absence of adequate funding arrangement. 
15. Harmonisation of Turnaround Time (TAT) and customer compensation for failed 
transactions using authorised Payment Systems
Reserve Bank of India had introduced guidelines on Turnaround Time (TAT) for resolution of 
customer complaints and compensation framework across all authorised payment systems in 
the month on September 2020. Banks and other operators / system participants shall 
endeavour towards quicker resolution of such failed transactions and wherever financial 
compensation is involved, the same shall be effected to the customer’s account suo moto, 
without waiting for a complaint or claim from the customer. The Bank has adopted the above 
guidelines w .e f October 2019. In the event of failed transactions, wherever financial 
compensation is involved, the same shall be effected to the customer’s account suo moto. 
Customer Compensation details for failed transactions using Authorised Payment 
Systems is as in below table:
Sl. 
no.
Description of the incident Framework for auto-reversal and 
compensation
Timeline for 
auto-reversal
Compensation 
payable
I II III IV
1 Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) including Micro-ATMs
a Customer’s account involved, the 
same shall be effected to the 
customer’s account suo moto,
Customer Compensation details 
for failed transactions using 
Authorised Payment Systems is as 
in below table:
Sl. 
no.
Description 
of the 
incident
Framework 
for autoreversal and 
compensation
debited but cash not dispensed.
Pro-active reversal 
(R) of failed 
transaction within 
a maximum of T + 
5 days.
₹ 100/- per day of 
delay beyond T + 5 
days, to the credit of 
the account holder.
Sl. 
no.
Description of the incident Framework for auto-reversal and 
compensation
Timeline for 
auto-reversal
Compensation 
payable
2 Card Transaction
a Card to card transfer
Card account debited but the 
beneficiary card account not credited.
Transaction to be 
reversed (R) latest 
within T + 1 day, if 
credit is not 
effected to the 
beneficiary 
account.
₹ 100/- per day of 
delay beyond T + 1 
day.
b Point of Sale (PoS) (Card Present) 
including Cash at PoS
Account debited but confirmation not 
received at merchant location i.e., 
charge-slip not generated.
Auto-reversal 
within T + 5 days.
₹ 100/- per day of 
delay beyond T + 5 
days.
c Card Not Present (CNP) (ecommerce)
Account debited but confirmation not 
received at merchant’s system.
3 Immediate Payment System (IMPS)
a Account debited but the beneficiary 
account is not credited.
If unable to credit 
to beneficiary 
account, auto 
reversal (R) by the 
Beneficiary Bank 
latest on T + 1 
day.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 1 day.
4 Unified Payments Interface (UPI)
a Account debited but the beneficiary 
account is not credited (transfer of 
funds).
If unable to credit 
the beneficiary 
account, auto 
reversal (R) by the 
Beneficiary Bank 
latest on T + 1 
day.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 1 day.
b Account debited but transaction 
confirmation not received at merchant 
location (payment to merchant).
Auto-reversal 
within T + 5 days.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 5 days.
5 Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (including Aadhaar Pay)
a Account debited but transaction 
confirmation not received at merchant 
location.
Acquirer to initiate 
“Credit 
Adjustment” within 
T + 5 days.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 5 days.
b Account debited but beneficiary 
account not credited.
6 Aadhaar Payment Bridge System (APBS)
a Delay in crediting beneficiary’s 
account.
Beneficiary Bank 
to reverse the 
transaction within 
T + 1 day.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 1 day.
7 National Automated Clearing House (NACH)
Sl. 
no.
Description of the incident Framework for auto-reversal and 
compensation
Timeline for 
auto-reversal
Compensation 
payable
a Delay in crediting beneficiary’s 
account or reversal of amount.
Beneficiary Bank 
to reverse the 
uncredited 
transaction within 
T + 1 day.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 1 day.
b Account debited despite revocation of 
debit mandate with the Bank by the 
customer.
Customer’s Bank 
will be responsible 
for such debit. 
Resolution to be 
completed within T 
+ 1 day.
8 Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) – Cards / Wallets
a Off-Us transaction
The transaction will ride on UPI, card network, IMPS, etc., as the case may be. The 
TAT and compensation rule of respective system shall apply.
b On-Us transaction
Beneficiary’s PPI not credited.
PPI debited but transaction 
confirmation not received at merchant 
location.
Reversal effected 
in Remitter’s 
account within T + 
1 day.
₹100/- per day if delay 
is beyond T + 1 day
****************************