POLICY ON CUSTOMER SERVICE
 March 2024
Policy on Customer Service
Banking being a service industry, customer is the most essential ingredient for its successful 
operation. Reserve Bank of India, over a period of time has enunciated various regulatory 
directives, which is based on certain principles and practices. Studies conducted by various 
committees such as the Talwar Committee, Goiporia Committee, Tarapore Committee etc., 
are the pillars on which customer service Policy of Banks are built. We have taken all the 
possible steps to imbibe the spirit of RBI directives to make this Policy the most customers 
friendly.
1. General management of the branches (Other offices also to follow to the extent 
possible)
Broadly, a customer can be defined as a user or a potential user of Bank services. A 
‘Customer’ may include:
❖ A person or entity that maintains an account and / or has a business relationship 
with the Bank;
❖ One on whose behalf the account is maintained (i.e. the beneficial owner)
❖ Beneficiaries of transactions conducted by professional intermediaries, such as 
Stock Brokers, Chartered Accountants, Solicitors etc. as permitted under the law, 
and
❖ Any person or entity connected with a financial transaction which can pose 
significant reputational or other risks to the Bank, say, a wire transfer or issue of 
a high value demand draft as a single transaction.
1.1Infrastructure facilities at branches
Branches shall provide sufficient customer service space, adequate furniture, drinking water 
facility etc. People with physical infirmities like pensioners, senior citizens, disabled persons, 
etc., will be provided with special seatings & counters. Branches will provide special 
infrastructure support for physically challenged and aged customers. 
The Bank will take its best effort for providing of ramps at the entrance of the bank branches, 
ATMs, wherever feasible, so that the persons with disabilities/wheel chair users can enter 
bank branches and conduct business without difficulty.
For senior citizens more than 70 years of age and differently abled or infirm persons (having 
medically certified chronic illness or disability) including those who are visually impaired, the 
Bank takes concerted effort to provide door step banking for basic banking facilities such as 
pick up of cash and instruments against receipt, delivery of demand drafts, submission of KYC 
documents and Life Certificate at the premises / residence of such customers.
1.1.Separate enquiry counters at very large and exceptionally large branches
Very large branches and exceptionally large branches shall provide separate enquiry counters 
in addition to a regular reception / “May I help you” counter.
1.2.Display of indicator boards
Branches shall display indicator boards at all the counters in English, Hindi as well as in the 
concerned regional language. Business posters at semi-urban and rural branches of Bank
shall also be in the concerned regional languages.
A uniform Comprehensive Notice Board is displayed at all the branches displaying various key 
aspects, i.e. interest rates, service charges, minimum balance requirement, product 
information, time norms for various banking transactions, Grievance Redressal Mechanism 
etc., and the same is to be updated regularly whenever there is a change in respect of the 
information already displayed.
1.3.Roving officials
Branch shall ensure that employees are available to respond to customers and facilitate them 
in carrying out their transactions. 
1.4.Booklets for customers
Customers shall be provided with booklets consisting of all details of service and facilities 
available at the Bank in Hindi, English and the concerned regional languages.
1.5.Use of Hindi and regional languages in transacting business with customers, 
including communications to customers
Apart from English, Bank will endeavor to use Hindi and regional languages for transacting 
business with customers, including communications to customers.
1.6.Reviewing and improving the existing security system
Periodical review of existing security arrangement in branches shall be carried out so as to 
find out any lacunae and also to instill confidence amongst the employees and the public.
1.7.Wearing of identification badges by the employees
All employees shall wear identity cards displaying photo and name. The display of identity will 
lead to better quality of customer service. Non-adherence to this rule by any employee shall 
be treated as a mis-conduct.
1.8.Periodic change of desk and entrustment of elementary supervisory jobs
Personnel attending various counters/desks and supervisors shall be rotated periodically. This 
will happen at least once in 6 months.
1.9.Training of staff in line with customer service orientation
Technical skills in Banking of staff at delivery channels will be periodically upgraded through 
training. Bank will adopt all means of communications like video conferencing, on-line training 
modules, job cards etc. All the training given to the staff will be in line with the customer service 
orientation.
1.10. Visit by senior officials from controlling offices and Head Office to branches
Senior officials from controlling offices and Head Office shall visit branches at periodical 
intervals for on the spot study of the quality of service rendered by the branches. Regional 
Head or his deputy shall visit the branches at least once in every half-year.
1.12. Rewarding the best branches from customer service point of view by annual 
awards/running shield
Bank shall select best branches for Annual customer service awards. Inputs from customers 
shall also be used for arriving at the decision.
1.11. Customer service audit and customer surveys
Bank will conduct customer service audit and customer surveys on an annual basis to assess 
customer experience, satisfaction at branches.
1.12. Holding customer relation programs and periodical meetings
Bank will hold Customer Service Committees at branches level comprising of employees and 
customers and conduct monthly meetings to come up with suggestions for improvement in 
customer service. 
1.13. Establishment of a New Product and Services Approval Process
All issues in new products and services which compromise the rights of the Common Person 
shall be brought to the knowledge of Board/Customer Service Committee for approval.
1.14. Quality Assurance and Support Officers
The Quality & Support Officers (QSO) of each region shall ensure that the intent of Customer 
Service Policy is adhered to in letter and spirit. The Quality & Support Officers shall act as the 
watchdogs of Quality and any deviation from the expected quality levels shall be identified and 
acted upon. The QSOs will directly report to the Regional Head. A functional reporting line to 
Service Quality Department in Head Office will also be maintained. Quality & Support Officers 
are provided with a detailed checklist of areas that are to be checked and reviewed by them 
during their branch visits which is conducted quarterly.
2 Institutional frameworks
2.1. Customer Service Committee of the Board
Customer Service Committee of the Board co-opts experts and representatives of customers 
as invitees to enable the Bank to formulate policies and assess the compliance there of 
internally with a view to strengthening the corporate governance structure in the Bank and 
also to bring about ongoing improvements in the quality of customer service provided by the 
Bank.
2.2. Role of the Customer Service Committee
Customer Service Committee of the Board, shall address the following: -
• Formulation of a Comprehensive Deposit Policy
• Issues such as the treatment of death of a depositor for operations of his Account
• Product approval process with a view to suitability and appropriateness
• Annual survey of depositor satisfaction
• Tri-enniel audit of such services.
• Any other issues having a bearing on the quality of customer service rendered
2.3. Monitoring the implementation of awards under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme
Awards of the Banking Ombudsmen will be implemented expeditiously with involvement of 
Top Management. Further, with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the Customer Service 
Committee, Bank will also:
a. Place all the awards given by the Banking Ombudsman before the Customer Service 
Committee to enable them to address issues of systemic deficiencies existing in Bank, 
if any, which resulted in the awards; and
b. Place all the awards remaining unimplemented for more than three months with the 
reasons therefore before the Customer Service Committee to enable the Customer 
Service Committee to report to the Board such delays in implementation without valid 
reasons and for initiating necessary remedial action.
2.4. Standing Committee on Customer Service
Serve as the micro level executive committee driving the implementation process and 
providing feedback. The constitution and functions of the Standing Committee is as indicated 
below: -
a. The Standing Committee shall be chaired by Executive Director and include nonofficial independent members to enable a reliable feedback on the quality of customer 
service rendered by the Bank.
b. The Standing Committee is entrusted with the task of ensuring timely and effective 
compliance of the RBI instructions on customer service.
c. To receive the necessary feedback to determine departments of the Bank act in tune 
with the spirit and intent of instructions.
d. To review the practice and procedures prevalent in the Bank and take necessary 
corrective action, on an ongoing basis.
e. A brief report on the performance of the Standing Committee on the areas reviewed, 
procedures/practices identified and simplified/introduced will be submitted periodically 
to the Customer Services Committee of the Board.
2.5. Branch Level Customer Service Committees
In order to encourage communication between the customers and the Bank at the branch 
level, branch level committees shall be formed with greater involvement of customers. Senior 
citizens being an important customer segment will get represented in the committee. To 
improve the service, Branch Level Customer Service Committee will meet at least once a 
month. The committee will study complaints and accept suggestions from customers and 
members of the Committee. Committee will find out ways and means of improving customer 
service. The branch level committees will also submit quarterly reports with inputs/suggestions 
to the Standing Committee on Customer Service. Standing Committee will examine these 
inputs and provide relevant feedback to the Customer Service Committee of the Board for 
necessary Policy / procedural action.
2.6. Nodal Department/ Official for customer service
Service Quality Department at Head Office is designated as a nodal department for customer 
service in the H.O level and Head of Service Quality Department will be the nodal officer for 
customer service.
3. Board approved policies on Customer Service
3.1.Board approved policies
Bank has Board approved policies for the following: -
a. Cheque Collection Policy
b. Citizen charter
c. Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers
d. Code of Bank’s Commitment to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE Code)
e. Collection of Dues and Repossession of Security Policy
f. Customer Compensation Policy
g. Customer Grievance Redressal Policy
h. Customer Service Policy
i. Model Policy on Deposits
3.2. Giving publicity to the policies
a. Bank shall ensure that wide publicity is given to the above policies formulated by it by 
placing them on Bank’s web-site and also by making it available in the notice board in 
the branches. Copies shall be made available at Branches for reference by customers 
on demand.
b. The customers shall be clearly apprised of the assurances of the Bank on the services 
at the time of establishing the initial relationship.
c. Bank shall take necessary steps to keep the customers duly informed of the changes 
in the policies formulated by it from time to time.by publishing the same at the Bank’s 
website.
4. Opening / Operation of Deposit Accounts
The details related to the same are covered in the Policy of Bank Deposits
5. Statement of Accounts / Pass Books
5.1. Issuance of Pass Book to Savings Bank Account Holders (Individuals) Bank shall offer 
pass book facility to all the savings Bank account holders (individuals) and in case the Bank
offers the facility of sending statement of account and the customer chooses to get statement 
of account, the Bank will issue monthly statement of accounts. The cost of providing such 
Pass Book or Statements will not be charged to the customer.
5.2. Updating Pass Books
a) Customers will be made conscious of the need on their part to get the Pass 
Books updated regularly and employees will be advised on the importance to 
this area.
b) Wherever Pass Books are held back for updating, because of large number of 
entries, paper tokens indicating the date of its receipt and also the date when it 
is to be collected shall be issued.
c) Whenever a passbook is tendered for posting after a long interval of time or 
after very large number of transactions, a printed slip requesting the depositor 
to tender it periodically will be given.
5.3. Entries in Pass Books / Statement of Accounts
The Bank will give constant attention to ensure entry of correct and legible particulars in the 
Pass Books and Statement of Accounts. With a view to avoid inconvenience to depositors, 
the Bank will avoid such inscrutable entries in Pass Books / Statement of Accounts and ensure 
that brief, intelligible particulars are invariably entered in Pass Books / Statement of Account.
5.4Maintenance of Savings Bank Pass Books: precautions
Negligence in taking adequate care in the custody of Savings Bank Pass Books facilitates 
fraudulent withdrawals from the relative accounts. A few precautions in this regard are given 
below:
a. Branches should accept the pass books and return them against tokens.
b. Pass Books remaining with the branches should be held in the custody of 
named responsible officials.
c. Overnight custody of Pass Books will be held under lock and key.
5.5. Providing monthly Statement of Accounts
Bank will ensure to adhere to the monthly periodicity while sending Statement of Accounts. 
The Statements of Accounts for current account holders will be sent to the depositors in a 
staggered manner instead of sending by a target date every month. The customers may be 
informed about staggering of the preparation of these statements. 
5.6. Address / Telephone Number of the Branch in Pass Books / Statement of Accounts
In order to improve the quality of service available to customers, the address / telephone 
number of the branch will be mentioned on the Pass Books / Statement of Accounts.
6. Acceptance of cash over the counter
Branches shall accept cash over the counters from all the customers who desire to deposit 
cash at the counters.
7. Service at the counters
7.1. Banking hours/working days
Bank shall normally function for public transactions at least for 5 hours on week days and 1st, 
3
rd & 5th Saturdays in the larger interest of public and trading community. In the case of 
extension counters, satellite offices, one-man offices or other special class of branches which 
may remain open for such shorter hours as may be considered necessary.
7.2. Changes in Banking hours
Bank shall fix, after due notice to its customers, whatever business hours are convenient to it 
i.e. to work in double shifts, to observe weekly holiday on a day other than Sunday or to 
function on Sundays in addition to the normal working days, subject to observing normal 
working hours for public transactions referred to in paragraph above. For closing any of its 
offices on a day other than a public holiday, Bank will give due and sufficient notice to the 
parties concerned who are or are likely to be affected by such closure. Due care will be taken 
to avoid infringement of any other relevant local laws such as Shops and Establishment Act,
7.3. Commencement / Extension of working hours
Commencement of employees’ working hours shall be 15 minutes before commencement of 
business hours at branches in Metropolitan, Urban and Semi Urban centers subject to the 
provisions of the local Shops and Establishments Act. The Branch Managers and other 
supervising officials shall, ensure that the members of the staff are available at their respective 
counters with all necessary ledgers, computers etc., ready right from the commencement of 
Banking hours and throughout the prescribed business hours so that there may not be any 
grounds for customers to wait. Branch shall ensure that no counter remains unattended during 
the business hours and uninterrupted service is rendered to the customers. Further, the 
Branch will allocate the work in such a way that no Teller counter is closed during the Banking 
hours at their branches. All the customers entering the Banking hall before the close of 
business hours shall be attended to. Branch shall also ensure that customers visiting Branches 
during business hours are properly serviced.
7.4. Extended business hours for non-cash Banking transactions
Bank will extend business hours for Banking transactions other than cash, up till one hour 
before close of the working hours. The following non-cash transactions will be undertaken 
during the extended hours, i.e., up to one hour before the close of working hours:
(a) Non-voucher generating transactions:
(i) Issue of pass books/statement of accounts;
(ii) Issue of cheque books;
(iii) Delivery of term deposit receipts/drafts;
(iv) Acceptance of share application forms;
(v) Acceptance of clearing cheques;
(vi) Acceptance of bills for collection.
(b) Voucher generating transactions:
(i) Issue of term deposit receipts;
(ii) Acceptance of cheques for locker rent due;
(iii) Issue of travellers cheques;
(iv) Issue of gift cheques;
(v) Acceptance of individual cheques for transfer credit.
Such non-cash transactions to be done during the extended business hours will be notified 
adequately for information of the customers.
The Bank may have evening counters at the premises of existing branches in 
Urban/Metropolitan centres for providing facilities to the public beyond the normal hours of 
business. Bank will ensure that transactions conducted during the extended hours of business 
are merged with the main accounts of the branch from where it is providing the aforesaid 
facilities. Bank will give due notice to the constituents about the functions to be undertaken 
during the extended Banking hours through local newspapers, as also by displaying a notice 
on the notice board at the Branch(es) concerned. Further, as and when the hours of business 
of any of the branches are extended, the concerned clearing house will be informed.
8. Disclosure of Information
8.1. Assistance/guidance to customers
All branches, except very small branches will have “Enquiry” or “May I Help You” counters 
either exclusively or combined with other duties, located near the entry point of the Banking 
hall.
8.2. Display of time norms
Time norms for specialized business transactions shall be displayed predominantly in the 
Banking hall.
8.3. Display of information - Comprehensive Notice Board
Notice Board enables customers to take informed decision regarding products and services 
of the Bank and be aware of their rights as also the obligations of the Bank to provide certain 
essential services. It also disseminates information on public grievance redressal mechanism 
and enhances the quality of customer service in the Bank and improves the level of customer 
satisfaction.
8.4. Notice Board
The Bank will display the information in the Notice Board in the Branches as per the format 
given for the Comprehensive Notice Board by the internal working group of RBI. While 
displaying the information in the notice board, Bank will also adhere to the following principles:
a. The notice board will be updated on a periodical basis and the board will indicate the 
date up to which the board was updated.
b. Display will be simple and readable.
c. The language requirements (i.e., bilingual in Hindi speaking states and trilingual in 
other states) will be taken into account.
d. The notice board shall specifically indicate wherever recent changes have been done.
e. The notice board will also indicate a list of items on which detailed information is 
available in booklet form.
In addition to the above Board, the Bank will also display details such as ‘Name of the Bank / 
branch, Working Days, Working Hours and Weekly Off days' outside the branch premises.
9. Booklets/Brochures:
The detailed information as indicated in the Notice Board shall be made available in various 
booklets / brochures as decided by the Bank for reference by customers on demand. These 
booklets /brochures may be kept in a separate file / folder in the form of ‘replaceable pages’ 
so as to facilitate copying and updating. In this connection, Bank may also adhere to the 
following broad guidelines:
❖ The file / folder may be kept at the customer lobby in the branch or at the ‘May I Help 
You‘counter or at a place that is frequented by most of the customers.
❖ The language requirements (i.e. bilingual in Hindi speaking states and trilingual in other 
states) shall be taken into account.
9.1. Website
The detailed information as indicated in Para of the Notice Board will also be made available 
on the Bank’s web site. Bank will adhere to the broad guidelines relating to dating of material, 
legibility, etc. while placing the same on the websites. Bank will ensure that the customers are 
able to easily access the relevant information from the Home Page of the Bank’s web site. 
There are certain information relating to service charges and fees and grievance redressal 
that will be posted compulsorily on the website of the Bank. Reserve Bank is providing a link 
to the websites of Banks so that customers can also have access to the information through 
RBI’s website.
9.2. Other issues
Bank will ensure that the mandatory displays will not be obstructed in anyway. As customer 
interest and financial education are sought to be achieved by the mandatory display 
requirements, they will also be given priority over the other display boards. Information relating 
to Government sponsored schemes as applicable location-wise will be displayed according to 
their applicability.
9.3. Display of information relating to Interest Rates and Service Charges – Rates at a quick 
glance
Interest Rates and Service Charges at a quick glance will be made available as per the format 
devised by Reserve Bank in Bank’s website and will be made easily accessible from Home 
Page of the web site.
9.4. Disclosure of Information by Bank in the public domain
Disseminating information on products and services on websites is an effective channel for 
reaching out to customers and the public. These disclosures increase transparency in 
operations and also to help to create awareness among the customers about the products and 
services offered by Banks. Some of the details, which could be at the minimum, are made 
available for public viewing through website of Bank is listed below:
I. Policy / Guidelines
a. Citizen's Charter
b. Model Policy on Deposits
c. Cheque Collection Policy
d. Fair Practices Code for Lenders
e. Code for Collection of Dues and Repossession of Security
f. Code of Bank’s Commitment to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE Code)
II. Complaints
a. Grievance Redressal Mechanism
b. Information relating to Banking Ombudsmen
III. Opening of Accounts
a. Account Opening Forms
b. Terms and Conditions
c. Service Charges for various type of services – will cover common services– What services 
are available without any charges.
d. Interest rates on Deposits
e. Minimum balances – along with corresponding facilities offered.
IV. Loans and Advances
a. Application forms relating to loans and advances
b. Terms and Conditions
c. Processing fees and other charges
d. Interest rates on Loans and Advances
V. Branches
a. Details of branches along with addresses and telephone numbers (with search engine for 
queries relating to branch location)
b. Details of ATMs along with addresses
10. Cheque Drop Box Facility
Both the drop box facility and the facility for acknowledgement of the cheques at regular 
collection counters will be available to the customers and no branch will refuse to give an 
acknowledgement if the customer tenders the cheques at the counters. Customers will not be 
compelled to drop the cheques in the drop box. Further, in the context of customer awareness 
in this regard, Bank will display on the cheque drop-box itself that "Customers can also tender 
the cheques at the counter and obtain acknowledgment on the pay-in-slips". The above 
message will be displayed in English, Hindi and the concerned regional language of the State.
11. Customer Confidentiality Obligations
The scope of the secrecy law in India has generally followed the common law principles based 
on implied contract. The Bankers' obligation to maintain secrecy arises out of the contractual 
relationship between the Banker and customer, and as such no information shall be divulged 
to third parties except under circumstances which are well defined. The following exceptions 
to the said rule are normally accepted:
(i) Where disclosure is under compulsion of law
(ii) Where there is duty to the public to disclose
(iii) Where interest of Bank requires disclosure and
(iv) Where the disclosure is made with the express or implied consent of the customer.
Members of staff shall adhere to maintain confidentiality of customer and his transactions.
12. Employee obligations
All staff members shall extend warm and courteous services to the customers.
a. All staff members shall dress decently in clean and neat attire, which should reflect our 
respect and regard to customers.
b. All customers are to be dealt with politely. Staff members should not get angry and 
should avoid bitter exchange of words with customers. Staff members should be cool, 
calm and polite.
c. All staff members should wear identity card/badge.
d. All staff members should report to work 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the 
business hours in Metro, Urban and Semi Urban Branches. They should be ready to 
offer services from the time prescribed for commencement of business by carrying out 
the preliminary works, like opening of the computers, keeping the ledgers, cash etc., 
ready etc., before commencement of business. E.g., the working hours of the staff 
members of normal branches will commence at 9.45 a.m. and will end at 4.45 p.m.; 
the business hours will be 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
e. Depending upon the volume and nature of business and profile of customers, 
Branches shall make arrangements to stagger the lunch recess, so that customers 
reporting to the branches during the declared/notified lunch recess are attended to. It 
shall be ensured that no employee is required to work continuously for more than 4 
hours without having a recess
f. No gifts, donations, subscriptions etc., other than that approved by the Bank shall be 
solicited and/or accepted by the staff members from the customers or others.
g. Breach of any of the rules laid down in this Policy by any member of staff will be a misconduct.
h. Heads of office/Branch will be responsible to ensure compliance of the above and other 
guidelines in this Policy by all the employees in the office/branch
13. Special measures to ensure continuous and safe Customer Service in Covid 
19 like situations through Branches and other channels
The Customer Service Policy is being renewed to incorporate clauses to ensure continuous 
and safe Customer Service in Covid 19 like situations through Branches and other channels 
• Branches will ensure all steps are taken to ensure safety of customers and staff.
• The branch shall undertake proper hygiene steps to sanitize premises, ATMs, 
currency notes as per protocol and safety norms announced from time to time. 
• Employee hygiene measures like daily temperature check, usage of sanitizers and 
protective equipment like gloves, mask etc should be ensured.
• Adequate steps shall be taken to ensure social distancing measures are practiced in 
the branch premises. 
• Customers shall be provided sanitizers at the entrance.
• Where branches are required to be closed due to instructions from the relevant 
authorities, a notice shall be affixed at the branch entrance that provides details of (a) 
Approximate number of days when the branch will remain closed (b) The address and 
contact details of the closest branch that is open for business. 
• Branches shall provide Door step banking to Senior citizens/vulnerable customers 
• The Bank shall provide timely and proactive communication to customers through 
Social media, website, SMS, email regarding changes in banking hours/ closure of 
branches in lock down and containment zones, heightened safety precautions, digital 
capabilities, operational changes etc. 
• Customers shall also be informed, proactively, about possible delay in delivery of 
cards, cheque book etc.,
• The Bank shall ensure timely and suitable actions regarding new government 
programmes, moratorium measures and related matters. Proper communication to 
customers through all possible channels shall be maintained on such items
• Branches and Contact Centre should encourage our customers to register themselves 
for various digital capabilities that bank is extending to suit their requirement so that 
Contactless banking is practiced to the extent possible. 
• The Bank could deploy appointment facilities for the customers at the branches. 
Branches and Contact Centres shall encourage customers to use this facility to book 
appointments prior to visiting the branch. 
• The Bank shall send periodical alerts to customers through SMS/email regarding 
possibilities of Covid related phishing mails, unauthorized KYC requests, OTP/PIN 
sharing etc
****************************