P a g e 1 | 12 Jan’23
NOMINATION AND DECEASED CLAIMS POLICY
A. Nomination:
1. Nomination Rules
1.1. With the amendment of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the nomination has to be made in the 
prescribed manner. Accordingly, the Central Government has framed, in consultation with the RBI, 
the Banking Companies (Nomination) Rules, 1985. These rules in respect of deposit accounts, articles 
kept in safe custody and contents of safety lockers are detailed in Annexure 2.
1.2. The following table succinctly indicates as to 'who can nominate' and 'who can be a nominee':
Type of 
Accounts
Who can Nominate Who can be a Nominee
Deposit 
Accounts
 Sole depositor
 All depositors together (joint 
accounts)
 Pension account holder
 Proprietary Concern account 
holder
 Minor through a person 
lawfully entitled to operate 
the account
 Only one individual
 A minor can be a nominee, subject to 
another major individual being named 
as an appointee during the minority 
period of such minor nominee
Safety Lockers  Sole hirer
 Joint hirers
 Even a minor hirer may 
nominate through a person 
lawfully entitled to act on 
behalf of the minor
 Only one individual by sole hirer
 In case of joint hirers, each hirer may 
nominate one individual
 The nominee(s) may be minor(s) 
subject to other major(s) individual(s) 
being named as appointee(s) during 
the minority period
Articles in Safe 
Custody
 Sole depositor of articles in 
safe custody.
 Minor through a person 
lawfully entitled to act on 
behalf of the minor
 Only one individual
 A minor can be a nominee, subject to 
a major individual being named as 
appointee during the minority period
1.3. Nominations cannot be made in the following circumstances:
a) Deposit held in any representative capacity as the holder of an office or otherwise. For e.g.
i) An Administrator appointed to dispose of assets of a person cannot appoint a Nominee.
ii) A power of attorney holder cannot appoint a nominee.
b) A nominee cannot be an association, trust, society or any other organization or any office 
bearer thereof.
c) Nomination facility is not available in respect of persons jointly depositing articles for safe 
custody.
P a g e 2 | 12 Jan’23
d) There cannot be more than one nominee in respect of a deposit account.
2. Effect of Nomination
Deposit Accounts
a) Nomination on a Deposit account enables the bank to make payment of the amount standing to 
the credit of the deceased depositor to his/her nominee.
b) In case of a joint deposit account, the nominees right arise only after the death of all the 
depositors.
c) Where a nomination is made in the prescribed manner, on the death of sole/all the 
depositor(s), the nominee becomes entitled to receive the deposit to the exclusion of all other 
persons notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in 
any disposition, whether testamentary or otherwise in respect of such deposit.
d) Payment by the bank in accordance with the provisions of the Act shall constitute a full 
discharge to the bank of its liability in respect of the deposit.
Safety Lockers
a) Nomination on a Safety Locker account enables the bank to release the contents of a safety 
locker to the nominee of the hirer of such locker, in the event of the death of the hirer, after 
making an inventory of the contents of the safety locker in the prescribed manner.
b) In respect of lockers hired jointly, on the death of anyone of the joint hirers, the contents of the 
locker are only allowed to be removed jointly by the nominee and the survivor(s) after an 
inventory is taken in the prescribed manner.
c) On the removal of the contents of any locker by nominee or jointly by the nominee and 
survivors, the liability of the bank in relation to the contents of the locker shall stand 
discharged.
d) No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against the bank for any damage caused or 
likely to be caused, for allowing access to the nominee and liberty to remove the contents of 
the locker.
Articles in Safe Custody
a) Nomination in respect of articles in safe custody enables the bank to return the articles left by a 
deceased person in its safe custody to his nominee, after making an inventory of the articles in 
the prescribed manner.
b) Where a nomination is made in the prescribed manner, on the death of the person leaving the 
articles in safe custody, the nominee becomes entitled to receive the articles in safe custody to 
the exclusion of all other persons notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the 
time being in force or in any disposition, whether testamentary or otherwise in respect of such 
deposit. 
Without Nomination (for settlement of claims in various types of accounts / facilities):
Sr.
No.
Nature of 
Account
Single 
Depositor
Joint A/c
(operated
jointly)
Joint A/c
(Either or
Survivor/ Former or 
Survivor)
Joint A/c
(Anyone or
Survivors)
P a g e 3 | 12 Jan’23
A Savings / 
Current A/c
Legal Heirs 
or person 
mandated by 
them
 On death of one 
depositor –
Legal Heirs of 
deceased + 
survivors
 On death of all 
depositors –
Legal heirs of all 
the depositors
 Survivor
 On death of 
both the 
depositors –
Legal heirs of all 
the depositors
 On death of one or 
more depositor/s –
Legal Heirs of 
deceased + 
survivors
 On death of all 
depositors – Legal 
heirs of all the 
depositors
B. Term 
Deposit 
Account
- same as 
above -
(on maturity 
of deposit)
- same as above -
(on maturity of 
deposit)
- same as above -
(on maturity of 
deposit)
- same as above -
(on maturity of deposit)
C. Premature 
withdrawal 
of FD
- same as 
above -
(As per 
terms of 
contract)
- same as above -
(As per terms of 
contract)
- same as above -
(As per terms of 
contract)
- same as above -
(As per terms of 
contract)
3. Registering Nomination in
5.1 Deposit Accounts
 At the time of opening an account, the customer should be guided to properly fill-up 
Nomination Form DA1 as provided in Annexure 3. All the joint account holders must sign 
the nomination form.
Note: Nomination can also be made on the existing accounts at any time.
 Nomination for deposit accounts held by customers to be account specific and not 
customer specific. This implies that each new deposit account opened by the customer 
with the Bank, needs to be accompanied by original nomination form in the event 
customer intends to register nomination. 
 Witnessing on nomination to be mandatory only for cases wherein the account holder is 
illiterate / visually impaired. The witness (es) can be anyone other than the nominee.
 Separate nomination forms should be obtained for each deposit only if the nominees are 
different for each. If it is the same nominee, the details of the various deposits may be 
mentioned in one nomination form.
 Nomination facility is also available in Netbanking where the customer can log in and 
maintain the Nomination as required
5.2 Safety Lockers 
i) Nomination form (Form SL1 in case of sole hirer and Form SL1A in case of Joint Hirers) 
duly filled in and signed by all the hirer(s). 
P a g e 4 | 12 Jan’23
ii) In case of sole hirer, the nomination on a locker can be made in favor of one individual 
only (sole nominee). 
iii) For a minor nominee, the guardian’s name and address should be obtained. 
iv) Modification in Nomination can be done through Form SL3 duly filled-in by the hirer in 
case of a sole hirer and Form SL3A in case of joint hirer(s).
5.3 Articles in Safe Custody
i) Nomination Form SC1, duly filled in and signed by the sole lodger. 
ii) For minor a nominee, the guardian’s name and address should be obtained.
iii) Form SC3 to be provided in case of change in Nomination 
4. NRI Accounts 
6.1 Nomination Facility
a) Nomination facility in terms of Banking (Nomination) Rules, 1985 is available in respect of NonResident (Ordinary) Rupee (NRO), Non-Resident (External) (NRE), Foreign Currency NonResident [FCNR(B)], Resident Foreign Currency (RFC), accounts held either in individual or in 
joint names.
b) The nominee in respect of the above accounts can be a Resident or a Non-Resident.
c) The procedure relating to obtaining, variation and cancellation of nomination is similar to that 
of resident deposits.
d) Additional clause included in the nomination for NRE/FCNR accounts “Kindly note that 
notwithstanding the fact that the deposit is freely repatriable during your lifetime, repatriation 
of proceeds to the nominees would be subject to the approval of the Reserve bank of India and 
the prevalent Exchange Control regulations in force from time to time.” 
6.2 Repatriation Facility
a) NRO Accounts
Nominee can be a resident or a non-resident, but funds shall not be allowed to be repatriated 
outside India.
b) NRE Accounts
i) The Banking Companies (Nomination) Rules, 1985 framed under Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 enable banks to pay the amount standing to the credit of the deceased depositor to his 
nominee. Authorized dealers may allow remittance of funds lying in the NRE/FCNR accounts 
of the deceased account holder to their non-resident nominees, subject to the following 
conditions:
 A valid nomination has been registered in the bank’s record in favor of the nominee(s) 
in conformity with the provisions of the Banking Companies (Nomination) Rules, 1985.
 The nominee continues to be non-resident at the time of the claim/remittance sought 
for from India and that the deceased depositor was non-resident at the time of his/her 
death.
 All the legal heirs are non-residents. A signed declaration to the effect duly witnessed 
may be submitted by the nominee to the authorized dealer. 
c) FCNR (B) Accounts
P a g e 5 | 12 Jan’23
The rules pertaining to repatriation of funds lying in the FCNR (B) accounts of the deceased 
account holder are similar to rules applicable to NRE accounts as detailed above.
d) (iv) RFC Accounts
i) RFC accounts shall have the nomination facility as in the case of resident rupee 
accounts.
ii) On the death of an RFC account holder, the balance in the account may be repatriated to 
the nominee(s) to the extent of his/their entitlement, if on the date of death of the 
account holder such nominee(s) is/are resident outside India. If any nominee is a person 
resident in India on the date of the death of the account holder, the amount may be paid 
to him/her in equivalent Indian rupees. If the resident nominee desires to remit funds out 
of his share of the repatriable deposits of the deceased account holder, for meeting the 
latter's liabilities abroad or for similar other purposes the application may be forwarded 
to RBI. Such requests will be considered on merits. 
B. Deceased Constituents - Legal Aspects
1. Bank's Responsibility on the Death of a Constituent
1.1 Notice or knowledge of the death of a constituent precludes the bank from paying further cheques 
signed by the deceased person even though these may be dated / issued prior to death of the 
person, except when the bank itself becomes a holder-in-due course before the death of such 
person.
1.2 In case of a joint account, the withdrawal may continue to be permitted to the survivor(s), if any, 
based on the mandate given at the time of opening a joint account. In due course, after completion 
of prescribed formalities, the name of the deceased person may be deleted in case the joint holder 
wants to continue the account or the account closed.
1.3 However, the difficulties arise in the case of disposal of assets belonging to the only/all the account 
holder(s) if there is/are no other joint account holder(s)/survivor. In such cases, the balance in the 
account or valuables deposited in locker(s) or articles kept in safe custody should ordinarily be 
paid/delivered to –
a) A nominee, if any, or
b) Legal heir(s)/representative(s).
2. Death Claims - Operating Procedures
i. Joint Accounts:
 In joint accounts CASA and time deposits, where the survivor(s) can operate the accounts as per 
mandate given at the time of account opening, withdrawals by the survivor(s) and cheque 
deposits in their name(s) will be permitted in the account. 
 Cheques signed by the deceased prior to death (except where the bank is holder-in-due course) 
and deposit instruments favoring the deceased would be returned. 
ii. Minor Accounts
P a g e 6 | 12 Jan’23
 In case of death of account holder, being a minor, the account must be closed immediately with a 
request letter from the guardian and death certificate. 
 The amount in the account will be paid to the guardian. The same applies with fixed deposit /
recurring deposits, if any. 
iii. Death of the Guardian
In the event of death of the guardian the following can be done
 Account to be continued:
 The guardian in the account can be changed. Name of the new guardian to added basis 
name addition process and the Name of the deceased customer to be deleted basis death 
certificate. 
 Instances where both the natural guardians of the minor are deceased, the guardian 
appointed by the court can continue with the account by providing a court order.
 Account to be closed:
 The surviving guardian can close the account. 
 The balance in the account will have to be made in favor of the minor – Minor u/g the 
surviving guardian. Relationship proof to be taken of the minor with the surviving guardian
 Where minor has turned major, and guardian is deceased:
 In case the account needs to be closed a request letter to be taken from the Minor turned 
major for closure.
 Identity document (Officially Valid Documents – OVD) and photograph to be taken in from
Minor (who has turned major).
 Balance in the account will be paid to the Minor (who has turned major).
 Death certificate of the guardian to be provided for name deletion.
iv. Partnership Accounts:
Blocking transactions on Partnership accounts in the event of death of a partner will depend on 
the provisions in the Partnership Agreement as regards to dissolution of the firm in the event of 
death of a partner or not. Pending study of the Partnership Agreement in consultation with 
Legal department, a low severity caution memo may immediately be updated, and cheques 
signed by the deceased partner returned. Further action should be initiated in consultation with 
the legal department.
If Partnership deed provides that in the event of death of the partner the partnership will 
continue with the surviving partners themselves or by inducting new partners, the account can 
continue. On receipt of the intimation of death of the partner of the firm the operations in the 
account will be blocked pending receipt of a revised partnership deed along with a revised 
mandate for operation of the account.
Operations in the account with the surviving partners will be allowed as per the Partnership 
deed with the consent of the legal heirs of the deceased partner. Following may be noted in 
respect of the partnership account: 
- When partnership is constituted with only two partners:
The Partnership stands dissolved in the event of 1 of 2 partners dies or retires. The firm 
cannot continue even if there is a survivor clause in the partnership deed that the firm will 
continue to exist. The claim in respect of the account will be settled in favor of all the legal 
heirs of the deceased partner and the surviving partner. However, the surviving partner is 
P a g e 7 | 12 Jan’23
at liberty to start a new partnership business by entering into a Fresh Partnership Deed / 
Agreement with other partners.
- When there are more than two partners in the partnership deed:
In this scenario, the firm can continue as per the death and retirement clause given in the 
partnership deed. i.e., a new partner can be added, and the firm can continue. A reconstituted 
deed is prepared, and firm can continue the account in the bank. 
In case the remaining partners wish to close the account, then normal closure process to be 
followed by taking copy of death certificate of deceased partners and signature of all remaining 
partners on the closure request. 
v. Trust/Society/Clubs/Association accounts:
 In case of death of sole trustee/authorized signatory, operation on the A/C should be immediately 
blocked,
 The trustees/ authorized signatory(ies) has to act jointly unless there is an express provision to the 
contrary in the Trust Deed/Bylaws. In case of death of any, trustee, the operation on the a/c 
should be stopped unless the relative Trust Deed/Bylaws confers express powers on the surviving 
trustee to act. 
vi. Private / Public LTD Accounts
 Death of the director of a Company / LLP will not affect the constitution of the company as 
company is different and separate entity from its directors. Therefore, no death claim is required 
to be settled in case of Pvt. Ltd, Ltd and LLP company. The change in directors can be affected
through Form 32 and ROC receipt.
vii. HUF Accounts
 In case of death of the Karta, the operation in the account will be blocked.
 In case the account is to be continued:
 Post death of Karta, next senior most co-parcener becomes the Karta,
 The account will continue as is, with change in the name of Karta
 In case the account is to be Closed
 The amount can be claimed either by the eldest male member of the HUF or the Legal Heir. 
 Request letter duly signed by all the coparceners for closure of account and NOC / authority 
to one of the co-parcener to receive the balance should be obtained.
viii. NRI Accounts - Death Claim for NRE/NRO/FCNR accounts:
The entire process remains the same as that for resident account with only the below 
exceptions.
 In case the claimant cannot visit the branch, all death claim documents should be attested by 
 Any authorized official of overseas branches of Scheduled Commercial Banks 
registered in India
 Any branch of overseas bank with whom HDFC Bank has relationship
 Notary Public abroad.
 Court Magistrate abroad.
 Judge abroad. 
P a g e 8 | 12 Jan’23
 Indian Embassy/Consulate General in the country where the NRI/PIO resides.
 The following points to be noted additionally in case of death claim settlement of a NRI 
customer holding NRE/FCNR/NRO accounts.
 Repatriation of NRE/FCNR funds to non-resident nominee - Authorized dealers/Authorized 
banks may allow remittance of funds lying in the NRE/FCNR account of the deceased 
account holder to his non-resident nominee OR can be credited to NRI nominee's 
NRE/FCNR account 
 Payment of NRO funds to Non-resident Nominee - The amount due/ payable to nonresident/NRO Account nominee from the account of a deceased account holder, shall be 
credited to NRO account of the nominee with an Authorized dealer/Authorized bank in 
India.
 Remittances abroad by Resident nominee - If nominee is resident Indian and if he wishes to 
remit death claim proceeds outside India for meeting the liabilities, if any, of the deceased 
account holder or for similar other purposes, he should obtain Reserve Bank of India 
permission. 
ix. Limited Company’s A/cs: 
 Where notice of death is received in respect of a person who is authorized to operate an A/c 
of a Limited Co., outstanding cheques drawn by such person of the Company will be paid. 
 If the date mentioned on a cheque is that of a date subsequent to the demise of the 
authorized signatory, then such cheque should not be paid by the Bank. 
 However, if the remaining authorized signatories of the company are empowered to issue 
such cheques, independent of the deceased authorized signatory, a written confirmation 
may be obtained from such signatories to honor the cheque, along with their signatures 
and seal/stamp, in which case, the Bank may pay the cheque if the same is otherwise in 
order. Such written confirmation should be attached to the cheque and held on record.
 Association, Society, club A/c: The instructions given in respect of Limited Company’s A/cs 
shall also apply to A/cs of Association, Society, Club etc. 
 Accounts operated by a holder of Power of Attorney or Letter of Mandate: Upon the death 
of the principal, the authority of Attorney or Mandate holder stands cancelled. The 
operations in the a/c should be immediately stopped and no cheques signed by 
Attorney/Mandate holder should be paid after receipt of notice of death of the principal.
x. Public Provident Fund (PPF) 
 In case of PPF account, if there is nominee in the account, Form G (Format provided by the PPF 
office) to be obtained from the nominee for release of payment. 
 If there is no nomination in PPF account, Form G to obtained from legal heir 
 For amount greater than Rs 5 lakh, succession certificate is mandatory along-with Form G.
 Multiple nominations are allowed in PPF account. In case of multiple nominations, payment to 
be done as per percentage mentioned for each nominee in system.
 Documents to be obtained as below:
a) Death Certificate.
b) Self-attested copy of Officially Valid Documents (OVD) to be obtained from nominee or 
other claimant(s). 
c) Claim Application from the Nominee (as per format provided in form G).
P a g e 9 | 12 Jan’23
d) Succession Certificate (Applicable only if there is no nomination and amount is more than Rs 
5 lakh)
Fresh Account Opening documents, if the nominee wants to open an account and transfer the funds 
to his/her account.
2.1 Claim Documents Required
a) Documents Common to All Claim Situations
In all claim situations, death certificate will be required as a basic document. Further, self-attested 
copy of Officially Valid Documents (OVD) to be obtained from nominee or other claimant(s
Death Certificate - Original Death Certificate issued by anyone of the following authorities alone is 
accepted:
 Registrar of Birth and Deaths
 Municipality or Corporation
 Panchayat Office
Death Certificate normally contains the place and date of the death of the deceased, his 
name and age. 
In case the customer has expired in a foreign country and death certificate is issued abroad, 
the same must be apostilled in the country issuing the death certificate by competent 
authority to be recognized as valid document in India.
(i) Proof of Identity of Nominee/Appointee of Minor/Other Claimants - Identification of the 
Nominee/Appointee of Minor Nominee/Other Claimants would be as per the Bank’s acceptable 
list of identity documents.
b) Simple Claims for Deletion of Name(s)
a) These claims can be entertained only in accounts with joint names with one/more deposit 
accounts holders surviving, 
b) The documents required are:
(i) Death Certificate.
(ii) Request Letter for deletion of name of the deceased.
(iii) Fresh Nomination Form DA1.
c) Where the deceased person is the first named person, the name of deceased person to be 
deleted basis name deletion process supported by Death certificate
d) Fresh Nomination Form DA1 will need to be filled-up and signed by the survivors even if they 
wish to continue the original nominee.
e) In case the Safe deposit locker was hired jointly with the instructions to operate it under joint 
signatures, and the locker hirer(s) nominates any other individual(s), in the event of death of 
any of the locker hirers, the bank shall give access of the locker and the liberty to remove the 
contents jointly to the survivor(s) and the nominee(s) after an inventory was taken in the 
prescribed manner. In case the Safe deposit locker was hired jointly with survivorship clause 
and the hirers instructed that the access of the locker should be given to "either or survivor", 
"anyone or survivor" or "former or survivor" or according to any other survivorship clause 
permissible under the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the banks shall follow the 
mandate in the event of death of one or more of the joint locker-hirers. In case of Safe Deposit 
Lockers in joint names with survivorship benefits and no nomination, the survivor(s) is/are 
required to surrender the existing locker and obtain fresh locker as per the prescribed 
P a g e 10 | 12 Jan’23
procedure with continuity of rental paid on the earlier locker. In case the surviving member
insists to continue with the same locker, the same can be done with CH approval and a fresh 
agreement
c) Nomination based Claims
The documents required are:
a) Death Certificate.
b) Self-attested copy of Officially Valid Documents (OVD) to be obtained from nominee or other 
claimant(s), 
c) Claim Application from the Nominee 
d) Declaration from the Appointee of a Minor Nominee 
e) Fresh Account Opening documents, if the nominee wants to open an account and transfer the 
funds to his/her account. 
d) Fast Track Claim without Nomination / Legal Representations 
a) When there are no nominations, the legal heirs of the deceased constituents are required to 
submit appropriate Legal Representations to claim the assets left by the deceased with the 
bank. Getting Legal Representations causes considerable delay and difficulties to the legal heirs.
b) In case where the deceased depositor has not made any nomination or for accounts other than 
those styled as “either or survivor,” RBI has advised banks to adopt a simplified procedure for 
repayment to legal heir(s) of depositor keeping in view the imperative need to avoid 
inconvenience and undue hardship to common person. In this context, banks have been 
advised to fix a minimum threshold limit for the balance in deceased holders account, (keeping
in view their risk management systems) up to which claims in respect of the deceased 
depositors could be settled without insisting on production of any documentation other than a 
letter of indemnity. The letter of indemnity to be stamped as per the stamp act of the state.
e) Legal Representation based Claims
(i) Original legal representation in the form of Succession Certificate/Probate of the will granted by 
the Court/Letters of Administration along with a duly certified copy (Certified copy means the 
orders/succession certificate/probate issued by the court). Probate of will is required only in 
the following cities:
 Mumbai
 Chennai
 Kolkata
For other parts of the country if the WILL is registered and the branch is satisfied with the 
genuineness of the WILL, the claim can be settled in favor of the beneficiary of WILL /
Executors of WILL on obtaining NOC from all the legal heirs stating that WILL is genuine / 
undisputed, not challenged before any competent court of law and they do not have any 
objection if the claim is settled basis WILL. In all such cases the Will to be vetted by Legal. 
f) Public Provident Fund (PPF) 
i. In case of PPF account, if there is nominee in the account, Form G (Format provided by the PPF 
office) to be obtained from the nominee for release of payment. 
ii. If there is no nomination in PPF account, Form G to obtained from legal heir 
iii. For amount greater than Rs 5 lakh, succession certificate is mandatory along-with Form G.
P a g e 11 | 12 Jan’23
iv. Multiple nominations are allowed in PPF account. In case of multiple nominations, payment to 
be done as per percentage mentioned for each nominee in system.
v. Documents to be obtained as below:
e) Death Certificate.
f) Self-attested copy of Officially Valid Documents (OVD) to be obtained from nominee or 
other claimant
g) Claim Application from the Nominee (as per format provided in form G).
h) Succession Certificate (Applicable only if there is no nomination and amount is more than Rs 
5 lakh)
Fresh Account Opening documents, if the nominee wants to open an account and transfer the funds 
to his/her account.
3. Procedure for settlement of Missing persons claims
As per guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India, settlement of claims in respect of missing persons 
would be governed by the provisions of Section 107/108 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.
Section 107 deals with presumption of continuance and Section 108 deals with the presumption of 
death. Section 108 states that presumption of death can be raised only after a lapse of seven years 
from the date of a person reported as “missing”. As such, the nominee / legal heirs must raise an 
express presumption of death of the subscriber under Section 107/108 of the Indian Evidence Act 
before a competent court. If the court presumes that he/she is dead, then the claim in respect of a 
missing person can be settled based on the same. However, RBI has advised banks to formulate a 
policy which would enable banks to settle the claims for missing person after considering the legal 
opinion and considering the facts and circumstances of each case.
Keeping in view the imperative need to avoid inconvenience and undue hardship to the customers the 
mentioned process for claims with respect to missing persons should be followed:
The claim process can be segregated into 2 types
a) Fast track claims for missing persons – For claims amount below Rs. 25,000/- without any 
dispute.
b) Settlement of claims for missing persons – For claim amount greater than Rs. 25,000/-.
3.1 Fast track claims for missing persons: For claims amount below Rs 25000/- without any dispute
(a) To avoid undue hardship and settle the claims without causing inconvenience to customers, 
claims with total balances in all accounts up to a maximum of Rs 25,000/- (Rupees Twenty-five 
thousand only) and where there are no disputes between the legal heirs, will be settled without 
production of Legal Representations i.e., probate/succession certificate.
(b) Documentation for fast-track claims for missing persons:
 Indemnity Letter – (as per the Banks Format) 
 Copy of the FIR recorded at the police stations
 Copy of the non-traceable report issued by the police authority
* Please note however that in these cases there will be NO death certificate issued.
3.2 Settlement of claims for missing persons: For claim amount greater than Rs. 25000/-
P a g e 12 | 12 Jan’23
(a) Where a nominee / legal heir raises an express presumption of death (in respect of a missing 
relative), an order/decree of competent court presuming the missing person to be dead, will be 
required to be submitted by the nominee/legal heirs of such a person.
(b) In this case a competent court would be district court magistrate, High court, Civil Judge, 
Supreme Court.
(c) Please note that in all these cases there will be NO death certificate issued.
****************