P a g e 1 | 90
Updated on Oct 13, 2025
Terms and Conditions for Savings Account
These Terms and Conditions (“Terms and Conditions”) apply to and regulate
the operation of the Savings Account offered by ICICI Bank in India and govern
the general relationship (including, without limitation, all transactions relating
to the operation and maintenance of the Account) between the Customer
(defined below) and the relevant Branch of ICICI Bank Limited (‘ICICI Bank’),
having its registered office at: ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra
Road, Vadodara 390007, India. These Terms and Conditions shall be in addition
to any other terms as stipulated by ICICI Bank from time to time on its Website
(defined below) whether pertaining to the Account (defined below) or in
relation to other products, services or offers provided by ICICI Bank.
Any other Services (defined below) may be offered to the Customer at the
discretion of ICICI Bank or on the basis of the eligibility criteria of a Customer
on which specific Terms and Conditions may be applicable. In case of a conflict
between any of these Terms and Conditions and the Terms and Conditions
specified for the above mentioned other Services, specific Terms and Conditions
of such other Services shall prevail. 
Further, in case of an inconsistency between the Terms and Conditions and any
specific Term and Condition pertaining to a specific variant of the Account, the
specific Term and Condition of that particular variant of the Account shall
prevail. 
I. Definitions
In these Terms and Conditions, the following words and phrases have the
meaning stated hereunder unless indicated otherwise: 
i. ‘Account’ shall mean the Savings Account, including but not limited to
various variants of a Savings Account opened by the Customer with ICICI
Bank in acceptance of the Terms and Conditions and would be a domestic
liability Account offered by ICICI Bank in India, as more particularly
described in the AOF (defined below) and other account opening
documentation. 
ii. ‘Account Opening Form’ or ‘AOF’ refers to the relationship form for the
Account, whether electronic or otherwise. 
P a g e 2 | 90
iii. ‘Applicant’ refers to the Customer who has applied for opening a Savings
Account with ICICI Bank whether pursuant to filing an electronic application
form or a physical application form. 
iv. ‘Authority’ means any competent regulatory, prosecuting, tax or
governmental authority, court or tribunal, in any jurisdiction, domestic or
foreign. 
v. ‘Confidential Information’ means any information relating to the Customer
and the Customer’s respective representatives received by ICICI Bank or its
affiliates and respective representatives in the course of providing various
products and services to the Customer/Applicant, including personal data,
Customer’s Bank Account details, transactional information and any other
information either designated by the Customer/Applicant as confidential at
the time of disclosure or that a reasonable person would consider to be
confidential or proprietary in nature. 
vi. ‘Customer’ refers to any person holding an Account or maintaining any
deposit, any other account, any other relationship, whether loan based or
otherwise with ICICI Bank and shall include his/her heirs, executors, legal
representatives, as applicable to the specific type of Customer. In case of
the Customer being a minor, it shall mean the minor acting through his/her
natural Guardian or a Guardian appointed by a court of competent
jurisdiction. 
vii. ‘Guardian/Parent’ shall mean the natural/court appointed guardian
appointed under the applicable laws for a Customer who is a minor.
viii. ‘ICICI Bank Customer Care Centre’ refers to ICICI Bank - Phone Banking
Service provided by ICICI Bank to Customers. 
ix. ‘Law/Regulation’ means the law or regulation of any jurisdiction, domestic
or foreign, or any agreement entered into with or between authorities.
x. ‘Other Services’ shall mean and include such additional
offers/benefits/facilities offered by ICICI Bank, including but not limited to
pre-approved loans and offers such as additional facilities provided to
Customers of ICICI Bank at its sole discretion. 
xi. ‘Quarter’ shall mean a financial quarter i.e. April – June, July – September,
October – December, January – March in any financial year.
xii. ‘Promotional Offer/s’ shall mean additional benefits in the form of
Promotional Offers provided to the Customer. Promotional Offer/s may be
P a g e 3 | 90
brought to Customer(s) from time to time based on additional Terms and
Conditions which shall be communicated with such Promotional Offer/s.
The Promotional Offers are subject to the variants of both, the Savings
Account and the Debit Card, opted for by the Customer and are subject to
change from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank. The Customer
shall be responsible for regularly reviewing the Terms and Conditions
including amendments thereto as may be posted on the Website.
xiii. ‘RBI’ shall mean the Reserve Bank of India. 
xiv. ‘Services’ shall mean the services provided by ICICI Bank in connection with
the Account and more particularly described in these Terms and Conditions.
xv. ‘Website’ refers to the website owned, established and maintained by ICICI
Bank on the URL www.icicibank.co m
xvi. ‘Programme’: means a relationship banking solution offered to the
Customer, where the Customer needs to maintain a threshold relationship
across defined banking solutions and enjoys the benefits under the
Programme. 
II. Interpretation:
i. All references to singular include plural and vice versa and the word
‘includes’ should be construed as ‘without limitation’.
ii. Words importing any gender include the other gender. 
iii. Reference to any statute, ordinance or other law includes all regulations and
other instruments and all consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or
replacements for the time being in force. iv. All headings, bold typing and
italics (if any) have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do
not define limit or affect the meaning or interpretation of these Terms and
Conditions. 
v. Reference to any law or legislation, regulation, rule shall mean, applicable
constitution, statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, judgment, order,
decree, authorisation or any published directive, guideline, notice,
requirement or governmental restriction, having the force of law in any
jurisdiction and include laws as amended from time to time.
III. Applicability of Terms and Conditions
i. These Terms and Conditions form a contract between the
Applicant/Customer and ICICI Bank. The Applicant/Customer shall apply
for opening and operation of the account with ICICI Bank in the prescribed
AOF 
P a g e 4 | 90
ii. By applying for opening of the Account, the Applicant/Customer
acknowledges and agrees that he/she has read, understood and accepted
these Terms and Conditions and other specific Terms and Conditions
pertaining to the Account variant opted by the Customer and other
products and services availed by the Customer. 
iii. No act, delay or omission by the Bank shall affect its rights, powers and
remedies under these Terms and Conditions and other terms on its website.
IV. Account Opening:
i. The Account opening formalities are governed by the existing policies of
ICICI Bank and may be revised from time to time. The Applicant/Customer
will have to submit a duly filled AOF (whether in electronic form or in physical
form) along with the prescribed set of documents, from time to time, to the
satisfaction of ICICI Bank for the completion of the Know Your Customer
(‘KYC’) requirements. The Account cannot be opened for business
purpose(s). 
ii. The Customer Application Form (‘CAF’) - Savings Account together with the
Electronic Application Form (‘EAF’), Tariff guide/Schedule of Charges and
these Terms and Conditions and other Terms and Conditions available on
the Website constitute the Account opening documentation for the Account.
iii. In case the Account is opened with an account opening cheque, ICICI Bank
reserves the right to not open/activate the Account or close the Account in
the event the Account opening cheque is dishonored for any reason
whatsoever. 
iv. Any transactions undertaken from the Account, shall be in compliance with
the applicable Laws, including the Foreign Exchange Management (FEMA)
Act, 1999 and all related rules, regulations or notifications thereunder.
v. The Customer shall provide all particulars and information including but
not limited to taxpayer information in a true and accurate manner and shall
not withhold any information including any insolvency proceedings
initiated against him/her and if he/she has ever been adjudicated insolvent.
vi. The Customer understands that certain particulars given by him/her are
required by ICICI Bank in accordance with the operational guidelines
governing banking companies. 
vii. The Customer shall keep ICICI Bank informed at all times, of any
change/alteration in his/her communication details, including
communication address and authorizes ICICI Bank to update any
change/alteration in the communication details, including communication
address that ICICI Bank may be informed of by them and/or is brought to
the notice of ICICI Bank, and hereby authorizes ICICI Bank to contact the
Customer on such changed address. 
viii. The Customer shall provide any further information and updated KYC
documents that ICICI Bank may require from time to time and shall be
P a g e 5 | 90
required to comply with the Re-KYC requirements as required by ICICI Bank
from time to time. 
ix. In the event the address provided in the EAF is different from the address
received from UIDAI pursuant to the eKYC, the Customer authorizes ICICI
Bank to send all correspondence in relation to the Account to the
communication address as updated in the EAF and shall indemnify ICICI
Bank for any loss/damage/liability due to updation of the communication
address provided by the Customer in the EAF and for sending
correspondences to the communication address updated in the EAF.
x. In the event the date of birth received from UIDAI during eKYC mentions
only the month and the year of birth, the Customer authorizes ICICI Bank
to capture the date of birth field in the EAF as the correct date of birth. xi.
The Customer represents and confirms that the Customer has no
insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation proceedings initiated against him/her
nor has the Customer ever been adjudicated insolvent or bankrupt. xii. The
opening of the Account is subject to verification and ICICI Bank reserves
the right to reject the request of the Applicant to open an Account
without providing any reason. In the event where the documents submitted
by the Applicant or Customer for opening an Account and/ or availing the
Bank’s products and services or for processing the transactions thereon
are incomplete or discrepant, ICICI Bank shall notify such discrepancies
and/or certain additional verification/ documentation requirements within
a reasonable time through e-mails sent to the e-mail ID of the Customer
(as provided in the AOF). In case the highlighted discrepancies remain
unresolved or upon non-receipt of required documents within the
stipulated time period, if any, ICICI Bank, shall have the right to reject the
AOF of the Applicant and in accordance with its policies and procedures,
ICICI Bank and its Group Companies shall retain the application forms and
documents provided therewith at the time of Account opening, including
photographs and will not return the same to the Applicant in case of
rejection of the said application. In such an event the Bank shall not be
liable to pay interest on the amount of deposit and shall refund the money
received, if any, to the source account. xiii. The Customer agrees to be
contacted by the Bank to receive information in respect of the Account, its
maintenance, alerts, payments due, updates on existing and new products,
servicing of Account for sales, marketing or servicing of the relationship
with ICICI Bank, its Group Companies/associates or agents through modes,
including but not limited to telephone/mobile/SMS/e-mail.
xiv. If the Account is opened on the basis of submission of the Permanent
Account Number (‘PAN’) acknowledgement, the Customer has to submit
PAN within 90 days from the opening of the Account, failing which the
Bank reserves the right to close or freeze mark the operation of the
Account. The Customer also undertakes to provide/inform the Bank of any
change in the KYC documents provided by him\her including change in the
P a g e 6 | 90
communication address. The Customer further authorizes the Bank to
update the same in the Bank’s records. 
xv. As per provision of Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 read with
Rule 114AAA and 114B of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, a person who
has been allotted a PAN) as on the 1st day of July 2017 is required to link
his/her Aadhaar with PAN on or before June 30, 2021. Otherwise, the PAN
will become inoperative and it shall be deemed that the Customer has not
submitted his/her PAN. xvi. The Customer agrees and authorizes the Bank
to correct any details incorrectly entered in the data field in the EAF as per
the details mentioned in the CAF/documents submitted to the Bank for KYC
purposes. 
xvii. The RBI has prohibited Banks from dealing in any type of Crypto/Virtual
Currencies (‘VCs’) or providing services for facilitating anybody in dealing
with or settling VCs including transfer/receipt of money in accounts relating
to purchase/sale of VCs. The Customer hereby declares that he/she shall
not deal with any transactions in his/her Account, relating to any type of
VCs including but not limited to bitcoins. 
V. Know Your Customer:
i. Upon the request of ICICI Bank, the Customer agrees to provide appropriate
information/and or documents (including latest/recent photograph/s,
identity proof, address proof, profile details of account holder/s, authorized
signatories, mandate holders, beneficial owners, etc.) as per the RBI
guidelines on Know Your Customer / Anti Money Laundering (‘AML’) /
Combating the Financing of Terrorism (‘CFT’) issued under the Prevention
of Money Laundering Act, 2002 to ensure that any changes/updates in the
KYC/profile information of the Customers are duly updated in the records of
the Bank. 
ii. ICICI Bank, in compliance with the RBI guidelines, may make use of
communication modes which shall include but not be limited to letters, bank
statements, ATM/ Internet Banking. ICICI Bank may enable various modes
through which such information can be communicated to facilitate and
ease this process for the Customer. 
iii. The Customer agrees and confirms that the details furnished at the time of
Account opening are true and correct to the best of his/her knowledge and
belief and he/she undertakes to inform ICICI Bank of any changes,
immediately. In case any information provided by the Customer is found to
be false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, the Customer may be
held liable for the same. 
iv. The Customer consents to receiving information from the Central KYC
Registry through SMS/e-mail on his/her registered mobile number/e-mail.
P a g e 7 | 90
VI. Goods and Services Tax (‘GST’):
i. The Customer agrees and confirms that the GST Identification Number
(‘GSTIN’) provided at the time of Account opening will be the default/
primary number in case of multiple GSTINs and will be used for charging
GST and reporting on the GST Network (‘GSTN’) portal, unless otherwise
specifically requested by the Customer(s) with respect to any transaction.
ii. The Customer hereby agrees and confirms that the GSTIN information
given with respect to the number and billing address to ICICI Bank at the
time of Account opening is correct and ICICI Bank can update the same in
their records. 
iii. The Customer further agrees and confirms that the information provided by
the Customer can be used by ICICI Bank for the purpose of charging GST
and reporting of transactions on the GSTN portal and for other aspects
related to it and reporting to states under the GST Act and the applicable
rules in this regard, as amended from time to time. 
VII. Operating Accounts:
i The Account may be opened in the name(s) of: 
i. An individual in his/her own name.
ii. Two or more persons in their joint names. 
ii All the Accounts maintained in the name of an individual shall be operated
in single name by the individual or the power of attorney holder of such
individual and in the case of Joint Accounts, by the Account holders jointly,
or by either of the Joint Holder/s or as may be specified by the Joint Account
Holder/s in the Account Opening Form, or by their power of attorney holders
and accepted by ICICI Bank at its discretion. 
iii In case of Joint Accounts, any change in operational instructions with regard
to the Account Opening Form would have to be given by all the Joint Account
Holders irrespective of the mode of operation. The Joint Holders
(Customers), authorize the primary applicant, to access the Internet
Banking, Phone Banking and Mobile Banking modes (including WhatsApp)
as provided by the Bank and the Joint Holders agree that the Bank shall not
be held liable for acting upon the instructions of the primary holder or any
errors, liability, negligence, defaults, or omission that occur due to the abovementioned authorization. 
iv ICICI Bank, may send through courier or post, to the registered
address/specified address other than the registered address (if specifically
P a g e 8 | 90
requested by the Customer) or to the Customer’s registered email ID or an
SMS alert to the registered mobile number from time to time, Account
statements, balance confirmation certificate, chequebooks, Debit Cards,
various PIN mailers and such other 
a. items relevant or pertaining to the Account. It is incumbent upon the
Customer to intimate change in his/her demographic information
(including but not limited to the e-mail ID, mobile number), if any,
immediately. ICICI Bank shall not be responsible for any loss, damage
or consequences for wrong delivery of the above items arising out of
non-intimation of change in the mailing/communication address.
v The Customer is expected to examine the entries in the Account
statement/passbook on receipt and draw the attention of ICICI Bank to any
errors or omissions that might be discovered. ICICI Bank does not accept any
responsibility for any loss arising out of failure on the part of the Customer
to carry out examination of entries in the passbook/Account statement and
to point out such error and/or omission within 14 days from the date of the
Account statement/updation of passbook. vi. The Customer shall open the
Account with a minimum balance as prescribed by ICICI Bank. The Customer
shall be responsible for maintaining a Monthly Average Balance (‘MAB’)
during a month. Failure to maintain the prescribed MAB may attract charges
and such charges may be deducted by ICICI Bank from the Customer’s
Account. The Customer agrees that for each Account variant and product
feature offered, MAB requirements might vary and the Customer(s) agrees
that he/she has read and understood the respective MAB requirements to
be maintained and the default charges in respect of non-maintenance of the
MAB for the respective Account variant. For all details on the MAB
requirement, the Customer may refer to the Schedule of charges/Tariff Guide
or the Website. vii. The Customer confirms that the Customer has received
a copy of the Tariff Guide/Schedule of Charges applicable for the services
and for non-maintenance of MAB. The Bank may, at its sole discretion,
amend any of the services and charges from time to time, completely or
partially, with or without notice. The Bank shall have the right to debit the
Account, with respect to such applicable charges/modified charges
(including but not limited to charges with respect to the Debit Card). viii. The
Customer is expected to provide PAN Card or Form 60 or any other
document as may be prescribed by the tax authorities from time to time for
opening the Account, acceptance of cash deposits etc. in accordance with
the provisions of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 and its regulations, as
amended from time to time, for compliance thereof. 
vi The Customer agree that in case of a Joint Account with mode of operation
as anyone or survivor, either of the Joint Account holders may create a Fixed
Deposit/Recurring Deposit by placing a request through ICICI Bank
Branches, ATM, Phone Banking, Internet Banking or Mobile Banking
platforms as made available by ICICI Bank from time to time. The
P a g e 9 | 90
Customer agrees that such a Fixed Deposit/Recurring Deposit shall be
created in the name of all the Account holders with mode of operation as
anyone or survivor and the Customer shall be bound by the Terms and
Conditions applicable to such Fixed Deposit/Recurring Deposit as available
on the website and as otherwise communicated to the Customer or to a
Fixed Deposit created by renewing/auto-renewing a Fixed Deposit. The
Customer also understands that for availing a loan against such Fixed
Deposit or for premature termination of such a Fixed Deposit/Recurring
Deposit or any fixed deposit created by renewing / auto- renewing a Fixed
Deposit, written consent of all the Fixed Deposit/Recurring Deposit holders
would be required in the manner specified by ICICI Bank. The Customer shall
not raise any dispute/claim against ICICI Bank for creating/closing a Fixed
Deposit/Recurring Deposit in the manner specified above and shall keep
ICICI Bank indemnified against any loss/harm suffered by ICICI Bank with
respect to any dispute/claim raised by anyone/any third party.
vii The obligations with respect to the Account and operations of the Account
are subject to all applicable laws (including, without limitation, any
governmental acts, orders, decrees, guidelines, rules and regulations
including fiscal exchange control regulations). The Customer understands
and confirms that the Bank will be entitled at all times, to act in accordance
with the applicable laws, without requiring to provide prior intimation of
such actions to the Customer. Any and all limits/constraints imposed by the
applicable law shall apply to the Account and the facilities. The Customer
further agrees to comply with all applicable laws at all times.
viii As per the RBI guidelines the Bank will automatically convert a fully KYC
compliant Account into a 'Senior Citizen Account’ on the first/primary
Account holder completing 60 years based on the date of birth
available/updated in the Bank’s records. 
ix In case the Customer has submitted a document deemed to be an Officially
Valid Document (‘OVD’) supporting the communication address for opening
the Account and the Customer has to submit an OVD with updated
communication address to the Bank within 3 months from the Account
opening date failing which Bank reserves the right to take appropriate
action, including the Account being freeze marked/closing of the Account. In
this event, ICICI Bank shall not be liable or responsible for any losses or
damage that the Customer may suffer as a result of non-credit of any
amount/dishonour of any cheque or default of Electronic Clearance
Service /Standing Instruction presented for payment after the Account has
been closed. In the event of any credit balance in the Account at the time of
closure of the Account, the Customer may visit any ICICI Bank Branch with
a duly signed request letter and original ID proof to claim the funds.
x The Customer authorizes the Bank to issue ICICI Bank Debit Card and
enable Internet Banking, Phone Banking and Mobile Banking services as per
P a g e 10 | 90
the Terms and Conditions of Internet Banking services, Phone Banking and
Mobile Banking as available/set forth on the Website. 
xi In the event of multiple Customer IDs with the Bank, the Bank reserves the
right to consolidate the Customer IDs, as it may decide, without any prior
notice to the Customer. xv. The Customer understands that by
enrolling into the “Program”, the Customer will be required to maintain
threshold relationship values (TRV) as defined under the program.
VIII. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (‘FATCA’)/ Common Reporting 
Standard (‘CRS’)
i. The Customer/s understand/s that the Bank is relying on the information
provided by the Customer/s in the AOF for determining the status as
FATCA/CRS compliant and understand/s that the Bank is not able to offer
any tax advice on FATCA/CRS status or its impact. 
ii. The Customer/s agree/s to submit a new form within 30 days if any
certification or information in the FATCA/CRS is found to be incorrect.
IX. Chequebook:
i. Chequebook facility will be provided to the Customer for withdrawals or
payments from the Account. Cheques issued will be honoured based on
clear opening balance in the Account on the day the cheque is presented to
the Bank for payment. Chequebook facility will be provided at the discretion
of the Bank and may be withdrawn if the facility is not used, in accordance
with the Bank’s Terms and Conditions, by the Customer. In this regard
particular mention is made of the Bank’s right to withdraw the chequebook
facility if cheques issued by the Customer are frequently dishonoured due
to insufficient funds being maintained in the Account. Frequent dishonour
of cheques issued due to insufficient funds being maintained in the Account
may also result in closure of the Account, by the Bank.
ii. Chequebook for the Account, Internet Banking User ID and password may
be couriered directly to the mailing address given by the Customer, provided
all formalities of Account opening are completed. Subsequent chequebook
can be requested through the requisition leaf available in the chequebook
or through ATMs subject to satisfactory conduct of the Account.
iii. Alterations, if any, in the cheques are required to be authenticated by the
drawer’s signature against each such alteration. ICICI Bank reserves the
right to refuse cheques (received for payment) that have been altered, if
considered by ICICI Bank to be ambiguous or suspicious in any way, unless
P a g e 11 | 90
the alteration is authenticated by the drawer under full signature as per the
specimen on record with ICICI Bank or if received for payment more than
three months after the date on which the cheque is drawn. Cheques should
be drawn in such a way so as to prevent alteration after issue and the
drawer’s signature should be uniform with that on record.
iv. ICICI Bank will record and accept the instructions from the drawer for
stopping payment requests against cheques that are lost, stolen or not
required to be paid, only if such instructions are received from the drawer
by ICICI Bank, prior to presentment of such cheques at ICICI Bank Branch
or in the case of e-cheques, only if stop payment requests are placed prior
to payment of money against the same and ICICI Bank shall not be
responsible in any manner whatsoever for any losses caused or payments
made, if the cheques are presented for payment to ICICI Bank prior to
receipt of instructions, if any, from the drawer of the cheque(s) or in the case
of e-cheques, if the stop payment requests are placed after payment
against such cheques have been initiated by ICICI Bank. ICICI Bank may
charge a fee for such instructions. ICICI Bank may not honour and/or return
unpaid cheques which are altered, if considered by ICICI Bank to be
ambiguous or suspicious in any way or if received for payment more than
three months after the date the cheque is drawn. 
v. Customer should issue cheques in the Account only after making prior
arrangement of funds in the Account to avoid any return/dishonour. If a
cheque issued by the Customer is required to be returned for insufficient
balance in the Account or for being in excess of the arrangements,
fee/charge/interest may be levied by ICICI Bank. If any cheque deposited by
the Customer is returned unpaid, service charge may be recovered from the
Customer. In case of a large number of return/dishonour of cheques in the
Account, the Bank reserves the right to take corrective action for the specific
account as deemed fit including withdrawal of the chequebook facility or
closure of the Account. The Bank’s decision in this regard shall be final.
X. Demand Drafts / Pay Orders:
i. The Customer may place a request for issuance of Demand Draft /Pay
Order (the ‘Instrument’) by visiting any ICICI Bank Branch or by calling at
the ICICI Bank Customer Care Centre or through such other modes, subject
to such Terms and Conditions, as ICICI Bank may intimate from time to time.
In the event the Customer places a request through the ICICI Bank Customer
Care Centre, for issuance of Demand Draft /Pay Order, he/she may
thereafter collect the same from any Branch that is issuing the Instrument,
P a g e 12 | 90
chosen by the Customer on the same day of placing such request or within
such time as may be intimated to the Customer by ICICI Bank, failing which
the Instrument will be sent to the communication address of the Customer
last recorded in ICICI Bank’s records. In such an event, ICICI Bank shall be at
liberty to recover charges for such delivery. ICICI Bank shall not be
responsible on account of non-delivery or delays in delivery or non-receipt
of the Instrument. 
ii. ICICI Bank reserves the right to discontinue this service at any time without
prior notice to the Customer. 
iii. ICICI Bank shall have the right to not approve the request in the event of
insufficient balance at any point of time from acceptance of the request till
dispatch of the Instrument to the Customer. ICICI Bank shall be entitled, at
its sole discretion, to accept or not approve such requests. The provision of
such service shall be subject to such charges as may be applicable and the
Customer authorises ICICI Bank to recover such charges by debiting the
Account. 
iv. The Customer may request for cancellation of the Instrument requested, by
calling at the ICICI Bank Customer Care Centre, provided such request for
cancellation is placed while the Instrument is still within the possession of
ICICI Bank. 
v. If the Instrument is lost or has to be cancelled once the same is with the
Customer or his/her agent, the request for cancellation shall only be
accepted at the Branch that issued the Instrument. 
XI. Safe Keeping of Debit Card, Passwords, Chequebook etc.
The Customer shall be solely responsible for the safe-keeping and the
confidentiality of the Statement of Accounts, Balance Confirmation Certificate,
Chequebooks, Debit Card/Credit Card and their PINs, Internet Banking User ID
and password and such other items relevant or pertaining to the Account.
XII. Conduct of Account:
i. A Customer may request for the transfer of his/her Account from one
Branch to another Branch of ICICI Bank, online or by submitting a written
request at the ICICI Bank Branch where the Account was opened. The
Savings Account and linked Fixed Deposit Account, if any, will get
transferred to the Branch, as stipulated by the Customer, within 2 working
days from the date of such a request being made. 
ii. Transactions are accepted during banking hours at the Branch where the
Account is maintained or at any other ICICI Bank Branch under Anywhere
Banking facility. ICICI Bank shall not be liable for any delay on account of
P a g e 13 | 90
any connectivity failure. Anywhere Banking facility will not be available on
the day(s) when the Branch, where the Account Holder has his/her Account,
is closed. 
iii. Standing Instructions are accepted, free of charge, for transferring funds
from the Account to a Fixed Deposit Account or Recurring Deposit Account.
Other standing instructions are subject to service charges.
iv. ICICI Bank, at its sole discretion, may restrict the number of withdrawals
from the Account. 
XIII. Inoperative Account:
i. ICICI Bank may classify an Account as: 
• Inactive: if there are no Customer-induced transactions for <12> 
consecutive months in the Account.
• Inoperative: if there are no Customer-induced transactions for <24> 
consecutive months in the Account. i.e., no Customer-induced 
transactions for <12> consecutive months after the Account has 
become inactive.
ii. Customer induced transactions are in the nature of: 
a. a financial transaction initiated by or done at the behest of the account
holder by the bank/ third party (list of financial transactions is provided
below) or; 
• ATM/ Cash withdrawal/deposit 
• RTGS / NEFT/ IMPS /UPI/ AePS/ ABPS Transactions
• Internet Banking Transactions 
• Debit Card Transactions 
• Transfer of funds from / to the linked CBDC(e-Rupee) account
• Cheque Clearing 
• Remittance of funds by way of demand drafts 
• Cash withdrawal by third party through cheque 
• Standing Instructions issued by the customer 
• NACH Debit / Credits 
• Term Deposit Interest / proceeds 
• Dividend on shares/Interest on Debentures or any other
investment proceeds 
• Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) credits 
• Refunds like refunds related to e-commerce payments, Income
Tax Returns, etc. 
• National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) debits
b. certain non-financial transaction (as listed below) or;
P a g e 14 | 90
• Personal details update 
• Communication details update 
• Profile & Account Modification 
• Internet banking/Digital access • Document Update 
• Request for deliverables such as cheque book, passbook, etc.
c. KYC updation done in face-to-face physical mode or through digital
channels such as internet banking or mobile banking application of the
bank. 
iii. ICICI Bank may, at its sole discretion, deny services and/or any transactions
in the account of the Customer, which has been classified as Inoperative. This
would include all customer induced debit transactions and facilities such as
Quantum Optima, CASA Pooling, Auto-Sweep, etc. 
iv. The Customer agrees that in accordance with Section 26A of The Banking
Regulation Act 1949 and “Depositor Education and Awareness” (DEA) Fund
Scheme 2014 , any deposit account maintained with banks, which have not
been operated upon for ten years or more, or any amount remaining
unclaimed for ten years or more, as mentioned in paragraph 3(iii) of the
“Depositor Education and Awareness” (DEA) Fund Scheme, 2014, are
required to be transferred by banks to DEA Fund maintained by the Reserve
Bank of India each calendar month from the expiry of the said period of 10
years. 
XIV. Collection Facility:
i. Cheques, Demand Drafts, bills, dividend/interest warrants and other
instruments issued in favour of the Customer are accepted for collection on
the Customer’s behalf. The collection of outstation instruments includes
collection charges. ICICI Bank does not accept any responsibility for loss,
delay, damage or interception of the instruments during the postal or courier
transit. ICICI Bank does not accept or share any responsibility for delay in
realisation of such instruments or for the genuineness, validity or correctness
of the signatures or endorsements thereon. The withdrawals against such
instruments are permissible only on realisation of proceeds by ICICI Bank.
Any provisional credit allowed at the discretion of ICICI Bank for an
instrument under collection is recoverable with interest if the instrument is
returned unpaid. ICICI Bank has the right to not allow any drawings against
such provisional credit (shadow balance). 
ii. The Customer acknowledges that he/she will not derive ownership (or any
other rights) over the funds mistakenly or erroneously credited to his/her
Account and will not have any rights or claims whatsoever over such funds
and is obliged to repay or return such funds immediately to the Bank. iii. The
Bank reserves the right and the Customer hereby authorises the Bank to
reverse any entries erroneously passed, with or without notice to/from the
P a g e 15 | 90
Customer and to debit/credit the Account to the extent required to correct
any erroneous entries that may have been unintentionally made by the Bank.
Further, the Customer hereby provides his/her consent to the effect that, in
the event of receipt of any claim by the Bank, claiming erroneous/ mistaken
credit of funds to the Account, due to any reason, it shall be lawful for the
Bank to reverse such entries by debiting the Account and credit such
claimant, subject to such safeguards and measures as the Bank may deem
necessary or appropriate provided, such claim is made by:
a) A third-party Bank, then the Bank shall be entitled to reverse such
entry, under due intimation to the Customer or 
b) Any person/corporate/other third party, then the Bank shall be
entitled to reverse such entry after obtaining consent from the
Customer and the Customer shall not unreasonably withhold or
unreasonably delay the consent. 
iv. Local cheques, etc., may be tendered for collection sufficiently early in the
day as per the local clearing house timings. Withdrawals against clearing
cheques will be normally permitted only against cleared balances as per
applicable clearing house rules. 
v. In cases where a cheque is returned, the amount in respect of which the
Account was credited and/or in respect of which withdrawal was permitted,
ICICI Bank will reverse the credit of such amount and debit the amount
equal to the amount of the returned cheque. In such cases, if the Account
does not 
have sufficient funds, the outstanding amount shall be deemed to be a
temporary overdraft granted to the Customer and the Customer is bound to
repay the amount immediately on demand, to the Bank. In debiting the
amount as earlier mentioned, ICICI Bank would debit the amount credited
or the 
INR amount equivalent to the relevant foreign currency denominated
cheque, whichever is higher. The service charges and other charges as
applicable will also be levied by ICICI Bank in such instances.
XV. Overdrawing:
i. If for whatever reason the Account has been overdrawn or the Account has
a debit balance, the Customer shall be liable to pay interest and other
charges in accordance with ICICI Bank's prevalent rates and practices on
the amount overdrawn or on the debit balance. Any temporary overdraft in
the Account should be construed as a one-time facility only and not as a
continuous arrangement, unless otherwise agreed to, by ICICI Bank in
writing. 
ii. The Customer further agrees and undertakes to repay such amounts along
with the interest and other amounts in accordance with the Bank's
prevalent rate/s and practices. The Customer hereby further undertakes to
P a g e 16 | 90
fulfil any payment/repayment obligations pursuant to any loan/ Credit
Facility(ies) availed by the Customer, either through Internet Banking or
otherwise and disbursed in the Account maintained with the Bank in
accordance with the applicable Terms and Conditions. 
XVI. Charges / Fees:
i. Charges in connection with the operation of the Account and services, will
be levied at the rates as prescribed on the Website from time to time.
Charges will be debited from the Account at such intervals as may be
deemed fit by ICICI Bank. 
ii. ICICI Bank will also have the right to set-off the service charges, charges
for Non-Maintenance of MAB or any wrong credit or late returns reported
by the correspondent Bank /counterparty by debiting the Account, without
the requirement of providing further notice or seeking additional
consent /authorisation. In case the balance in the Account becomes
overdrawn as a result of such set-off, ICICI Bank will be entitled to charge
interest at such rates that the Bank may deem fit at its sole discretion, for
the period for which the Account remains overdrawn at any time during
the maintenance of the Account. In case of any shortfall in the Account or
in the event of closure of the Account, the Customer shall be liable to pay
the amount outstanding on account of charges/ interest or otherwise to
ICICI Bank, immediately, without objection or protest. ICICI Bank, at its sole
discretion, may levy service charges for the facilities provided by ICICI
Bank, in parts subject to maximum limit/s as decided by the Bank from time
to time. 
iii. The Customer agrees and confirms that in the event any of the services in
connection with the Account are or become taxable under the applicable
laws and regulations, the Customer shall bear all the taxes or duties (by
whatever name called) in connection with such services and ICICI Bank is
hereby authorised to deduct any such amount from the Account, without
providing further notice or seeking additional consent/ authorisation.
iv. The Customer authorises the Bank to debit his/her Account for opening a
Fixed Deposit /Recurring Deposit /applying for a feature-based Debit
Card/any other applicable services obtained by him/her from the Bank
through various modes. 
v. The Customer agrees to abide by the Terms and Conditions for Fixed
Deposits and Terms and Conditions for Recurring Deposits (as applicable)
and other Terms and Conditions as applicable for the respective additional
products/services opted by the Customer as available on the Website
including but not limited to the charges, interests applicable in relation to
the Fixed Deposits /Recurring Deposits, charges applicable in case of
premature withdrawal of a Fixed Deposit, insufficient balance in case of a
Recurring Deposit. 
P a g e 17 | 90
vi. In the event of occurrence of any of the above events, the Customer shall
receive balance amounts, net of all deductions made as per these Terms
and Conditions. The Customer shall be intimated at the latest address
provided by the Customer and required to collect all such amounts, from
ICICI Bank; in case the Customer does not collect the amounts within the
period stipulated by ICICI Bank in the communication sent to him/her, then
ICICI Bank shall send the amounts to the recently updated/registered
communication address of the Customer and will not be liable for any
reason whatsoever in case of non-receipt of such amount/s by the
Customer or any losses or damages incurred by the Customer as a
consequence thereof. 
vii. ICICI Bank reserves the right to waive off or reduce the fees/charges and to
withdraw any such benefit at any time without prior notice to the Customer
and without any liability to ICICI Bank. viii. The Customer understands that
any cash withdrawals above ₹20 lakh, are subject to tax, as per the
applicable laws (‘Tax Liability’); to be payable by the Customer at the time
of withdrawal, as per the rates (and applicable limits) specified by the
Government authorities. In order to recover the amount in relation to such
Tax Liability and to ensure compliance with the applicable taxation laws,
ICICI Bank may mark a lien on the Account or any other Account, which the
Customer may hold with ICICI Bank, to the extent of the Tax Liability
calculated. The Customer agrees and confirms that he/she shall not hold
ICICI Bank responsible for any claims in relation to such lien or deductions
made by the Bank, towards such Tax Liability. 
XVII. Holiday Processing:
i. Any transaction carried out on Sunday or public holiday may be shown in
the Account, at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank, as having taken place on
the previous or subsequent business day. All deductions/accretions of such
amounts shall be deducted/accrued as of such day. 
ii. ICICI Bank shall not be responsible for any loss of interest or liability
incurred/suffered by the Customer including but not limited to return of
cheques, loss of interest arising due to such transaction not being shown
on the day it actually occurred. 
iii. The cheques / drafts / pay orders / other instruments deposited on any day
which is a Sunday or public holiday or after the time of clearing for the day,
shall be sent for clearing on the next business day of ICICI Bank.
XVIII. Passbook / Statement of Account:
i. ICICI Bank shall offer, free of cost, to individual Customer(s) the option of
availing a passbook or a monthly Statement of Account sent through e-mail. In
P a g e 18 | 90
case of Customers other than individuals, a physical monthly Statement/eStatement of the Account shall be issued free of cost by ICICI Bank. ii. In addition
to the above mentioned, the physical monthly Statement of Accounts for the
previous months shall be available to all the Customers on request. Customers
will be able to view/download the Statement of Accounts, from the Website, in
relation to their Account(s) with ICICI Bank as per the process prescribed in this
regard by ICICI Bank from time to time. 
iii. Unless disputed by the Customer within 14 days of mailing the Statement of
Account /posting the entries in the Passbook of the Customer, the same shall be
deemed to be accepted by the Customer. ICICI Bank reserves the right to rectify
any discrepancies related to the Statement of Account/Passbook, if any, at any
point of time. If the Customer delays in examining the Statement of Account
/Passbook or in reporting a problem, it may affect ICICI Bank's ability to resolve
the problem and the Customer shall be liable for the losses that may occur
pursuant to the delay. iv. All the Statements of Accounts will be sent to the
Customer's communication address /mailed to the Customer’s registered e-mail
ID, provided by the Customer to ICICI Bank. ICICI Bank shall not be responsible
if the Statement of Account is undelivered or lost during postal transit. The
Customer 
shall be required to contact ICICI Bank immediately if the Statement of
Account is not received and request for a duplicate Statement of Account,
if required. At the request of the Customer, the Statement of Account may
be sent to the Customer's e- mail ID. The Customer is required to verify the
authenticity of the e-mail received and ICICI Bank shall not be liable in the
event any Statement of Account is received by the Customer from a
fraudulent person /impostor. ICICI Bank shall not be liable in the event of
any defects or failure in the computer system / network of the Customer on
account of receipt of e-mail/s by the Customer from ICICI Bank.
v. The Statement of Account/s issued to Customer(s) in the above-mentioned
manner shall be deemed to be an invoice/bill/challan issued by ICICI Bank
with respect to the Account(s) of the Customer(s) under the applicable law
as amended from time to time. 
vi. Duplicate copies of the Statements of Accounts shall be issued at the
request of the Customer for a fee, as intimated by ICICI Bank, from time to
time. Ordinarily, duplicate copies of the Statements of Accounts shall be
issued only for a period not exceeding 36 months prior to the date of
request. 
XIX. Payment of Interest:
Interest is calculated on a daily basis as per the daily closing balance in the
Account, at the rate specified by ICICI Bank in accordance with the Reserve
Bank of India directives. The interest amount calculated is rounded off to the
nearest Rupee. Interest is credited quarterly at the end of March, June,
September and December. 
P a g e 19 | 90
XX. Death or Incompetence:
The Customer agrees to notify ICICI Bank if any of the Account Holders/Joint
Account Holders or authorised signatory/ies of the Account die/s or is/are
declared incompetent by the court. ICICI Bank may place a freeze on the
Account and stop all operations when any of the Joint Account Holder/s or
authorised signatory/ies die/s or is/are declared incompetent. ICICI Bank may
retain the freeze on the Account until it establishes the identity and credentials
of the successor/beneficiary to its satisfaction. 
XXI. Nomination:
Nomination facility is available for the Account in the names of individuals.
Only one nominee is permissible for an Account and the nomination is to be
made by the Customer duly witnessed by a third person, wherein the Account
is opened with the Customer’s thumb impression. The Customer should
ensure that he/she gets/is given the acknowledgement as per the nomination
rules framed by the Reserve Bank of India. The Customer is at liberty to
change the nominee, in the appropriate form/in the manner stipulated by ICICI
Bank to revise the nomination during the maintenance of the Account with
ICICI Bank. 
XXII. Advantages of Nomination:
i. The Bank actively recommends that all Customers avail the nomination
facility. The nominee, in the event of death of the Customer, would receive
the outstanding balance in the Account. Nomination facility is intended only
for Individual Account Holders. This is also applicable for deposits having
operating instruction ‘Either or Survivor’. It may be noted that in the case of
a Joint Account, the nominee will be given the rights only after the death of
all the holders. 
ii. The Bank may retain any and all the funds in the Account until it establishes
the identity and credentials of the successor/s to its sole satisfaction and
the Bank reserves the right to demand and inspect the required
documentation in this regard, including a Succession Certificate and/or a
duly probated will. In case the Account is a Joint Account, the Customer
agrees that in the event of death, insolvency or withdrawal of any one or
more of the Account Holders, the surviving holders shall have full control of
the monies then and thereafter standing to the credit of the Account and
shall be entitled to withdraw the same and shall be fully liable for any
liabilities that may arise by reason of their being holders of the Account and
hold the same in trust for the other survivor(s)/legal heir(s) of
the deceased Customer, provided there is no order from a competent court
restraining the Bank from making any payment from the Account of the
P a g e 20 | 90
deceased Customer and/or there is any dispute among the survivors or legal
heirs. Without prejudice to the foregoing, in the event of death of the
Customer, the Bank reserves the right to pursue all courses available to it
under the law and equity at its discretion to recover any amounts that are
payable to the Bank, by the survivors/heirs/executors/administrators of the
Customer. 
XXIII. Insurance Benefit:
Insurance coverage of Personal & Air accident cover is being provided by
ICICI Bank, in association with ICICI Lombard General Insurance to all
Saving, Salary and Defence account holders of ICICI Bank Ltd. Details of the
Insurance coverage are available at:
https://www.icicibank.com/personalbanking/accounts/savings-account/
insurance-cover. Terms and Condition of the Insurance policy will apply.
The Accidental Death Insurance Cover is linked to ICICI Bank Account as an
additional benefit. The Customer may, under the Account, be offered various
insurance benefits from insurance companies from time to time. Further, the
Customer also agrees that ICICI Bank may at any time, in its sole discretion
suspend, withdraw or cancel the benefit of such insurance cover, and there
will be no binding obligation on ICICI Bank to continue this benefit.
The approved claim of any other insurance offered on the Account, standalone or otherwise, shall be credited to the underlying Bank Account. In case
of demise of Customer post raising the claim, the latest nominations details
registered against the Bank account shall be considered for approved
payout. 
Any insurance claim, dispute, or issue arising from such insurance benefits
shall be strictly between the Customer and the insurance company. The
Bank shall bear no responsibility or liability whatsoever for the acceptance,
rejection, processing, or settlement of any insurance claim by the insurance
company. In the event that an insurance claim is rejected, delayed, or
otherwise not processed to the satisfaction of the Customer, the Customer
shall have no recourse against the Bank, and the Bank shall not be liable for
any loss or damage arising therefrom. 
XXIV. Sharing of Information:
i. The Customer undertakes and authorises ICICI Bank, its group companies
to exchange, share or part with all the information, data or documents and
to make references and enquiries, which ICICI Bank/its group companies
P a g e 21 | 90
consider/s necessary in respect of or in relation to the Customer’s
application/further applications to other ICICI Group Companies / banks/
financial institutions / Credit Bureaus / agencies / statutory bodies /tax
authorities /central information bureaus/ such other persons
as ICICI Bank / its group companies may deem necessary or appropriate as
may be required for use or processing of the said information/ data by such
person/s or furnishing of the processed information / data / products thereof
to other banks / financial institutions / credit providers / Credit Bureaus /
agencies / statutory bodies /tax authorities /central information bureaus and
shall not hold ICICI Bank / its group companies liable for use of this
information. 
ii. The Customer agrees and confirms that the credit information bureaus
and/or any other agency may use and process the said information and
data disclosed by ICICI Bank to them, in the manner as deemed fit by credit
information bureaus and/or any other agency. Further, the Customer also
confirms and permits the credit information bureaus and/or any other
agency to furnish the processed information and data thereof prepared by
them to the banks/financial institutions and/or any credit grantors or
registered Customers as may be specified by the RBI in this behalf or as per
any other applicable law. 
iii. Data held by the Bank relating to Customers will be kept confidential, but
the Bank may, at its sole discretion, provide such information to the
categories of persons mentioned below. The Customer and/or the borrower
hereby irrevocably authorise(s) the Bank to disclose, as and when the Bank
is required to do so, by applicable law or when the Bank regards such
disclosure necessary (including but not limited to disclosures for the
purpose of credit review of any Account or the facility of the Customer
and/or the borrower with the Bank, whether held singly or jointly with others
or otherwise), any information relating to the Customer, his/her Account(s)
or other assets or credit facilities, held on the Customer's behalf to:
1. the Head office of ICICI Bank, its affiliates, Group Companies,
subsidiaries or its holding company, Branch offices in any
jurisdiction or third parties (‘Permitted Parties’) engaged by the
Bank for any such services/operations, including but not limited to
centralising or outsourcing its data processing and other
administrative operations 
2. the agents and independent contractors of the Permitted Parties,
who are under a duty of confidentiality to the Permitted Parties
and have the same degree of confidentiality and obligations as
agreed to, between the Permitted Parties and the Bank
P a g e 22 | 90
3. any actual or potential participant or sub-participant or assignee,
novatee or transferee (or any agent or adviser of any of the
foregoing) 
4. any rating agency, insurer or insurance broker of, or direct or
indirect provider of credit protection to any Permitted Party
5. any court, tribunal, regulatory, supervisory, governmental or
quasi-governmental authority with jurisdiction over the Permitted
Parties 
6. auditors, professional advisers and any other person(s) under a
duty of confidentiality to the 
Permitted Parties 
7. vendors, installers, maintainers or service providers of the
Permitted Parties’ computer systems 
8. any exchange, market or other authority or regulatory body,
having jurisdiction over the Permitted Parties, its head office or any
other branch of the Permitted Parties or over any transactions
effected by the Customer or the borrower or for the Customer's or
the 
Borrower's Account, including but not limited to the NPCI, CKYC,
UIDAI, the RBI, Enforcement Directorate (‘ED’) and police authorities
9. any party, lawfully authorised to make such a demand or request
10. any person with whom the Bank contracts or proposes to contract
regarding the sale or transfer or sharing of any of its rights,
obligations or risks under the Terms and Conditions 11. any
person (including any agent, contractor or third-party service
provider) with whom the Bank contracts or proposes to contract,
regarding the provision of Services in respect of the Customer's or
the Borrower's Account(s) or Facilities (as the case may be) or in
connection with the operation of the Bank's business
12. any person employed with or engaged as an agent by the Bank or
its Head Office or affiliates, including Relationship Officers,
whether in India or elsewhere, for the purpose of or for interactions
with the Customers or for providing Services to the Customers or
the Borrowers or for processing transactions pertaining to the
Customers' or the Borrower's Accounts or Facilities
13. for Wire Transfers to the Beneficiary Bank, to whom the money is
being transferred 
14. a drawee bank providing a copy of a paid cheque (which may
contain information about the payee) to the drawee
15. a person carrying out payment to the Account (by providing a copy
of a deposit confirmation slip which may contain the name of the
Customer) 
16. credit reference agencies and in the event of default, debt
collection agencies 
P a g e 23 | 90
17. any person whom the Bank is under an obligation to make
disclosure to, under the requirement of any law that is binding on
the Bank or any of its Branches. 
iv. The Customer hereby irrevocably authorises ICICI Bank to extract call
records or related information as may have been disclosed to any thirdparty service providers in relation to the Services/facilities offered to them
by such third-party service providers on account of the existing banking
relationship with ICICI Bank. 
v. From time to time, it will be necessary for Customers to supply the Bank
with data regarding the opening or continuation of Accounts or the
provision of banking facilities and services. Failure to supply such data may
result in the Bank being unable to provide any of the above Services or
facilities. It is also the case that data is collected from Customers in the
ordinary course of the banking relationship, for example, when Customers
write cheques, deposit money or apply for credit. This includes information
obtained from credit reference agencies. 
vi. The purpose(s) for which the Customer data may be used are as follows:
a. the processing of applications and the daily operation of the Services
and credit facilities provided to Customers 
b. conducting credit checks (including and without limitation, upon
an application for Customer credit and upon periodic review of
the credit) and data verification 
c. assisting other financial institutions to conduct credit checks and
collect debts 
d. ensuring ongoing creditworthiness of Customers 
e. designing financial services or related products for Customer use
f. marketing financial services or related products to Customers
g. determining the amount of indebtedness owed to or by Customers
h. creating and maintaining the Bank's credit and risk related models
i. collection of outstanding amounts from Customers and bills providing
security for Customer obligations 
j. meeting the requirements to make disclosure under the requirements
of any law, rule, regulation, order, ruling, judicial interpretation or
directive (whether having the force of law or not) applicable to ICICI
Bank and its agents and affiliates 
k. enabling an actual or proposed assignee of the Bank or participant or
sub participant of the Customer to evaluate the transaction intended
to be the subject of the assignment, participation or sub participation
l. any other purposes permitted by Law and 
m. purposes relating to any of the above. vii. Customer(s) with an Account
or service with any Branch of ICICI Bank located outside India hereby
agrees to provide, on a voluntary basis, all his/her/their personal and
Account information and records to the Bank which, together with any
P a g e 24 | 90
information generated or received by the Bank, may be collected and
kept by the Bank (including any agent or subcontractor appointed by
the Bank) in any country (as the Bank may consider appropriate) for
the purpose of maintaining the Bank’s relationship with the Customer
and offering or providing services or for investments made with or
through the Bank or other future services or products used by the
Bank to carry out matching procedures whether or not for the purpose
of taking adverse action against the Customer(s) or for maintaining a
credit history (whether or not the relationship with the Bank is
terminated) for the Bank's present or future reference. viii. The
Customer and/or the Borrower hereby agree and consent that the
Bank shall be entitled, in connection with the Customer's or the
Borrower's application for any Account, facilities or services provided
by the Bank, or during the course of the Customer's or the Borrower's
relationship with the Bank, to obtain and procure information
pertaining to the Customer or the Borrower or any of his/her/its
Accounts, legal or financial position from whatever sources available
to the Bank. 
ix. Data may be transferred overseas, pursuant to the provisions of this clause.
x. The information disclosed, pursuant to this clause may be subject to further
disclosure by the recipient to other parties in accordance with the laws of
the country in which the recipient is located. Such laws may be wider in
scope and implemented under less restrictive terms than would otherwise
be the case in India due to the difference in applicable laws and regulations.
XXV. Change of Terms:
ICICI Bank shall have the absolute discretion to amend or supplement any of
the Terms and Conditions at any time. ICICI Bank may communicate the
amended Terms and Conditions by hosting them on the Website or in any other
manner as decided by ICICI Bank. The Customer shall be responsible for
regularly reviewing these Terms and Conditions including amendments, as may
be posted on the Website. 
ICICI Bank shall have the absolute discretion to amend or supplement any of
the Terms and Conditions and/or Terms and Conditions/Schedule of
Charges/Tariff Guides stipulated by ICICI Bank and/or its affiliates related to the
Accounts and/or any services/facilities offered by ICICI Bank and/or its affiliates
in relation to the Account, at any time and shall give prior notice of one month
(except for change in interest rates) by hosting the same on the Website or in
any other manner as decided by ICICI Bank. The Customer shall be responsible
for regularly reviewing these Terms and Conditions and the Terms and
P a g e 25 | 90
Conditions stipulated by ICICI Bank and/or its affiliates including amendments,
as may be posted on the Website/notice board at the Branches. Such amended
Terms and Conditions and Schedule of Charges/Tariff Guides stipulated by
ICICI Bank and/or its affiliates will apply to and be binding on the Customer at
the expiry of one month from the date of notice. 
If in the opinion of the Customer, the changes are to his/her disadvantage, the
Customer may opt to close the Account and/or stop using any services/facilities
offered by ICICI Bank and/or its affiliates at any time in relation to the Account
by intimating ICICI Bank of the same. 
By continued usage of your Account and allied services, the Customer shall be
deemed to have accepted the changed Terms and Conditions and any new
Terms and Conditions/Schedule of Charges/Tariff Guides stipulated by ICICI
Bank and/or its affiliates. 
XXV. Non-Transferability:
The Account and the Services provided to the Customer are not transferable
under any circumstance and shall be used only by the Customer. However,
ICICI Bank shall have the right to transfer, assign or sell all its rights, benefits
or obligations to any person and these Terms and Conditions shall continue to
be in force and in effect for the benefit of the successors and assignees of ICICI
Bank. 
XXVI. Notices:
(i) The Bank shall contact the Customer at the address, telephone number or email address (if any) that has been provided to the Bank by the Customer. The
Bank must be informed at the earliest, if there is a change in name, any
changes in the address or e-mail address or if there are other changes
relevant to the Account. The Customer shall be responsible for any loss or
damage that may occur for not keeping the Bank updated on such particulars.
(ii) The Customer consents to authorise the Bank to send any communication
pertaining to the Savings Account, ERA and Products/Services or any other
relationship held by the Customer with the Bank, through registered e-mail ID,
phone, SMS, WhatsApp, in-app notifications or any other electronic mode.
The Customer understands that such electronic mode of communication is
subject to the Terms and 
Conditions prescribed by ICICI Bank and the Terms and Conditions prescribed
by the respective service provider. The Customer agrees to comply with the
Terms and Conditions of such electronic modes as applicable and
updated/modified from time to time 
(iii)Unless requested otherwise, the Bank will contact only the Joint Account
Holder, named first in the Bank records, subject to any legal and regulatory
P a g e 26 | 90
requirements. The first named Account holder is responsible for passing
information that the Bank sends to the other Account holders.
(iv)Communication between the Bank and the Customer may be carried out
through electronic means: 
a. Documents sent by electronic means will contain all the information in
the printed hard copy version, except for graphic insertions such as
photographs or logotypes. 
b. Electronic delivery may be in the form of an e-mail, an attachment to an
e-mail or in the form of a provision of a link to the Website, from which a
document could be downloaded. 
c. The Bank will be deemed to have fulfilled its legal obligation to deliver to
the user, any document, if such a document is sent through electronic
medium 
d. If the Customer fails to advise the Bank regarding any difficulty in
opening the document within 24 hours of receiving it, the Bank shall
consider this as an acceptance of the document. 
e. ICICI Bank may, with the consent of the Customer, communicate to the
Customer through telephone, for servicing the existing products availed
by the Customer and to offer new products. Such communication shall
not be in breach of any existing ‘Do Not Call’ guidelines as may be
applicable in the jurisdiction(s) governing ICICI Bank and the Customer.
f. General communication of information from the Bank to all Customers
as a whole or to any subgroup of Customers may, if the Bank acting
reasonably considers it appropriate, be carried out by the publication of
a notice on the Website or by putting prominent notices on the Bank’s
premises. 
g. Unless otherwise agreed or specified herein, any notice or other
communication may be delivered to the Customer personally.
h. Any writ, summons or other processes may be served upon the
Customer by sending them to the Customer's address and the same shall
be deemed to be good service upon the Customer. The foregoing shall
not however, preclude the Bank from effecting service of process in any
other manner permitted by law. 
i. All notices in connection with the Services or the Account(s) by the
Customer to ICICI Bank shall be in writing and should be sent to the
address as provided below and all notices shall be deemed to be
received by ICICI Bank only upon acknowledgment of receipt of the same
in writing by ICICI Bank. 
Address: ICICI Bank Limited, ICICI Phone Banking Centre, ICICI Bank Tower, 7th
Floor, Survey No: 115/27, Plot No. 12, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad - 500032, India. 
XXVII. Electronic Transactions:
P a g e 27 | 90
i. The Customer agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions as ICICI Bank may prescribe from time to time, and agrees and
confirms that all transactions/Services effected by or through facilities for
conducting remote transactions including the Website, ICICI Bank Customer
Care, electronic data interchange, teleservice operations (whether voice,
video, data or a combination thereof) or by means of electronic, computer,
automated machines network or through other means of
telecommunication, established by or on behalf of ICICI Bank, for and in
respect of the Account, or ICICI Bank's other products and services, shall
constitute legally binding and valid transactions when done in adherence
to and in compliance with ICICI Bank's Terms and Conditions for such
facilities, as may be prescribed from time to time. 
ii. Unless otherwise instructed, the nomination submitted by the Customer in
the EAF/CAF shall also apply for any Fixed Deposit/Recurring
Deposit/Deposit availed/booked by the Customer through Internet Banking
and/or Mobile Banking channels, as applicable. 
XXVIII. Electronic Instructions
The Customer agrees that ICICI Bank will not be liable for executing any
instructions it receives through telephone, facsimile or other forms of electronic
communication, including but not limited to, registered e-mail IDs. The
Customer further agrees to keep ICICI Bank indemnified from and against all
claims either by the Customer or others, their actions, demands, liabilities, costs,
charges, damages, losses, expenses and consequences of whatever nature
(including legal fees on a full indemnity basis) and howsoever arising, which
may be brought against ICICI Bank or that ICICI Bank may suffer, incur or
sustain by reason of or on account of the Bank having so acted whether
wrongly or mistakenly or not or of ICICI Bank failing to act wholly or in part,
according to the instructions. However, in the event of issues arising out of
unauthorised electronic banking transactions, the Customer understands that
ICICI Bank will follow the Customer Relationship Policy, available on
 https://www.icicibank.com/manage dassets/docs/personal/general - links/cod e -
 o f - commitment/Custome r - Relation s - Policy.pd f , for resolving such issues. The 
Customer agrees to have read and understood the same and shall keep 
themselves aware of the changes to the Customer Relationship Policy.
XXIX. Waiver:
No failure or delay by ICICI Bank in exercising any right, power or privilege 
shall operate as a waiver nor shall any single or partial exercise of any other 
right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies of ICICI Bank, as stated 
herein, shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies 
provided by law.
P a g e 28 | 90
XXX. Indemnity:
i. The Customer(s) hereby agrees that the Customer(s) shall, at his/her/their
own expense, indemnify, defend and hold ICICI Bank harmless against any
and all liability and any other loss that may occur, arising from or relating
to the operation or use of the Account or the Services or breach,
nonperformance or inadequate performance by the Customer of any of
these Terms and Conditions or the acts, errors, representations,
misrepresentations, misconduct or negligence of the Customer in
performance of its obligations. 
• The Customer agrees to indemnify ICICI Bank against any fraud, 
loss or damage suffered by ICICI Bank due to providing of any 
incorrect information or failure to communicate any change in 
such particulars/information or provide true and updated 
documents.
• The Customer further agrees to indemnify the Bank against any 
negligence or misconduct such as sharing of payment 
credentials, delay in notifying the Bank of any unauthorised 
electronic banking transaction or exercising the Bank’s right of 
set-off, combination, consolidation, lien or any other right.
ii. Under no circumstances shall ICICI Bank be liable to the Customer for any
indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary damages in
connection with the Account or the Services or the other services.
iii. The Customer shall indemnify and keep ICICI Bank indemnified as the
collecting banker for any loss or damage which it may incur or suffer by
guaranteeing any endorsement or discharge on a cheque, bill or other
instrument presented for collection and such guarantee shall be deemed to
have been given in every case at the Customer's express request.
iv. The Customer shall keep ICICI Bank indemnified at all times and shall hold
ICICI Bank harmless from all actions, proceedings, claims, losses, damages,
costs, interest (both before and after judgement) and expenses (including
legal costs on a solicitor and client basis) which may be brought against or
suffered or incurred by ICICI Bank for resolving any dispute relating to the
Account or in connection with these Terms and Conditions or which may
have arisen either directly or indirectly, out of or in connection with the Bank
performing its obligations or accepting instructions, including but not
limited to, fax and other telecommunications or electronic instructions and
acting or failing to act thereon. 
v. If any sum due and payable by the Customer is not paid on the due date,
including and without limitation, any money claimed under this clause, the
Customer shall be liable to pay interest (both after as well as before any
judgement) on such unpaid sum at such rate or rates as ICICI Bank may
from time to time stipulate, from the due date up to the date of payment.
vi. The Customer shall solely be responsible for ensuring full compliance with
all the applicable laws and regulations in any relevant jurisdiction for his/her
P a g e 29 | 90
Account with ICICI Bank and shall indemnify and keep ICICI Bank
indemnified against all actions, proceedings, claims, losses, damages, costs
and expenses (including legal costs on a solicitor and client basis) which
may be brought against or suffered or incurred by ICICI Bank in connection
with the failure to comply with any such applicable laws/regulations by the
Customer. 
vii. The indemnities shall continue, notwithstanding the termination/closure of
the Account. 
XXXI. No Liability for Loss
1. Neither the Bank nor any of its agents, employees or servants shall be
responsible or liable in any way for any direct or consequential loss
suffered by the Customer, its agents, employees, in any of the following
situations: 
i. as a result of taking or omitting to take any action pursuant to orders or 
instructions given or appearing to have been given to the Bank by the 
Customer or its duly authorised representative(s) or any person whom the 
Bank believes to be the Customer or its duly authorised representative(s), 
except in the case of willful default or gross negligence
ii. With respect to the authenticity, regularity, validity or value of any 
documents handled by the Bank on the Customer's behalf or the of any 
translation or the interpretation of any Terms appearing in any such 
documents
iii. for any failure to take or delay in taking any action required to be taken in
the event that and to the extent that the taking of such action is 
prevented or delayed by war (whether declared or not and including 
existing wars), revolution, insurrection, fire, explosion, stoppage of labour, 
strikes or other disputes with employees, laws, regulations, orders or 
other acts of any governmental authority or any other cause whatsoever 
beyond the Bank's control
iv. for any loss or damage sustained by the Customer resulting directly or 
indirectly from their reliance on any statement of Account or balance 
confirmation certificate which the Customer has or is deemed to have, 
verified to be correct at the time of Account/relationship opening
v. if, for any reason beyond the Bank's control, the operation of the 
Customer's Account or the Bank's ability to account the Customer for any 
monies in the his/her/their Account(s), is restricted or otherwise affected
vi. if the value of the funds credited to the Customer's Account shall diminish
due to taxes, deductions, withholdings, imposts or depreciation
vii. if the Customer is unable to obtain the payment of funds from his/her 
Account(s) due to restrictions on convertibility, involuntary transfers, 
Foreign Exchange controls, distraints of any character, or other causes 
whatsoever which are beyond the Bank's control, whether arising in
P a g e 30 | 90
a. India or in any place where the Bank has deposited such funds viii. 
computer breakdown, mechanical failure or malfunction, 
interruption of services, cloning or similar duplication of the 
Customer's Cards, any Debit, Credit, Charge Card or any other 
Card issued by the Bank (‘ICICI Bank Card’), material alteration of 
withdrawal requests, theft or loss of ICICI Bank Card, disclosure of 
passwords or other reasons of any kind whatsoever, due to no 
fault of the Bank
viii.if the Bank honours altered cheques and/or forged cheques where the 
alteration(s) and/or forgery was/were made possible by use of erasable 
ink, pens or typewriters or any other equipment with a built-in erasure 
feature or by the use of cheque writers or franking machines where the 
alteration(s) and/or forgery cannot be easily detected or where the 
alteration(s) and/or forgery is due to the Customer's negligence
ix. if the Bank refuses to honour any withdrawal request whether through 
the Bank's counter, use of electronic services or by any other means, in 
circumstances where it is legally entitled to do so
x. the exercise by of any of the Bank's rights by the Bank under these Terms
and Conditions xii. arising out of the Bank honouring orders drawn on 
and orders accepted and presented for payment against any Account 
(whether or not such Account is in credit) or complying with any other 
directions given regarding Accounts, which are signed by the Customer or
the Joint Account holders or in the Bank's good faith, appear to be signed 
by the Customer or the Joint Account holders
xi. xiii. arising out of delays in connection with any security processes 
performed by the Bank for fraud detection or anti-money laundering 
purposes or for legal and regulatory compliance.
2. ICICI Bank shall not be liable for any failure to perform any obligation
contained in these Terms and Conditions or for any loss or damage
whatsoever suffered or incurred by the Customer, howsoever caused and
whether such a loss or damage is attributable (directly or indirectly) to any
dispute or any other matter or circumstances whatsoever.
3. Under no circumstances shall the Bank be liable to the Customer for any
indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary loss or damage,
incurred/suffered, in connection with the Account or the Services.
XXXII. Services and facilities offered
The Bank reserves the right, at any time and from time to time, with or without
notice, to cancel, withdraw, suspend, vary, change, add to or supplement any
of the Services and Facilities offered to the Customers. When new services or
facilities are introduced, supplementary Terms and Conditions governing such
services may be introduced and notified to the Customers in writing. Unless
otherwise provided, the Customer shall be deemed to have accepted and
P a g e 31 | 90
agreed to be bound by such Terms and Conditions, upon utilisation of such
Services or Facilities. 
XXXIII. No Encumbrances:
The Customer shall not create or permit to subsist, any encumbrance or thirdparty interest over or against any Account, including but not limited to the
Account held with ICICI Bank or any monies lying therein without ICICI Bank's
express prior written consent. 
XXXIV. Bank's right to Lien and Set-Off:
i. ICICI Bank shall have the paramount right to set-off and lien, irrespective
of any other lien or charge, present as well as future, on all the deposits
held/balances lying in any Account of the Customer, whether in single
name or joint name(s), to the extent of all amounts payable by the
Customer, arising as a result of any of ICICI Bank's services being
extended to and/or being used by the Customer or as a result of any other
Facility that may be granted by ICICI Bank to the Customer. ICICI Bank is
entitled, without any notice to the Customer, to settle any indebtedness
whatsoever owed by the Customer to ICICI Bank, whether actual or
contingent, or whether primary or collateral, or whether joint and/or
several, including and without limitation, indebtedness under any
indemnity given by the Customer to ICICI Bank hereunder or under any
other document/agreement, by adjusting, setting-off any deposit(s) and
transferring monies lying, to the balance of any Account(s) held by the
Customer with ICICI Bank, notwithstanding that the deposit(s)/balances
lying in such Account(s) may not be expressed in the same currency as
such indebtedness. ICICI Bank's rights shall not be affected by the
Customer's bankruptcy, insolvency, death or winding-up.
ii. In addition to ICICI Bank's rights of set-off, lien or any other right which it
may, at any time, be entitled to, whether by operation of law, contract or
otherwise, the Customer authorises ICICI Bank: 
a.to combine or consolidate at any time, all or any of the Accounts and
Liabilities of the Customer with or to any Branch or Office of ICICI Bank
Limited (whether in India or elsewhere) and 
b.to apply, set-off or transfer at any time (without prior notice to the
Customer) any credit balance (whether or not due then) to which the
Customer is, at any time, beneficially entitled (whether singly or jointly) to
on any Account, and is in the Customer's name or held jointly with any
other person, with any Branch or Office of ICICI Bank Limited (whether in
India or elsewhere) towards the satisfaction of any or all of the Customer's
liabilities (whether such liabilities be present or future, actual or contingent,
primary or collateral, or several or joint) under the Terms and Conditions of
the Customer's Account(s) or under the Terms of other facilities that may
be granted by ICICI Bank to the Customer. 
P a g e 32 | 90
iii. For a Joint Account, ICICI Bank shall be entitled to set-off any sums,
standing to the credit of such a Joint Account against the Debit Balance in
other Accounts, which may be held by one or more holders of such a Joint
Account. ICICI Bank shall not be under any obligation to exercise any of
its rights under this clause. 
iv. The rights of ICICI Bank mentioned above are without prejudice to the
obligations of the Customer to pay to ICICI Bank, all its indebtedness when
due and without prejudice to any other rights that ICICI Bank may have
against the Customer, for the recovery of outstanding sums from the
Customer. 
v. ICICI Bank shall be entitled to withhold payments of the Account(s) or
dishonour the Customer's cheques/instructions in case any outstanding
from the Customer to ICICI Bank has not been paid when due.
XXXV. Governing Law:
The laws of India shall govern these Terms and Conditions. The Customer and
ICICI Bank hereby agree that any legal action or proceedings arising out of the
Terms and Conditions shall be brought to the courts or tribunals at Mumbai in
India, and that the Customer and ICICI Bank irrevocably submit themselves to
the jurisdiction of such courts and tribunals. ICICI Bank may, however, in its
absolute discretion, commence any legal action or proceedings arising out of
the Terms and Conditions in any other court, tribunal or other appropriate
forum, and the user hereby consents to that jurisdiction. Any provision of these
Terms and Conditions, which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction
shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of prohibition or
unenforceability but shall not invalidate the remaining provisions of the Terms
and Conditions or affect such provision in any other jurisdiction.
XXXVI. Joint and Several Liability:
In the event that the Customer constitutes more than one person, all obligations
and liabilities of the Customer under these Terms shall be joint and several for
all parties constituting the Customer. Any instructions, authorisations,
representations and warranties given or made by the Customer in cases where
the Customer constitutes more than one person shall be deemed to be jointly
and severally given or made and be binding on all such persons and in the
event that conflicting instructions or authorisations are received by the Bank
from more than one person, the Bank shall have the right to act on the first set
of instructions or authorisations received or on the instructions of all account
holders or not to act at all until any difference in the instructions or
authorisations between the persons constituting the Customer is resolved to
the satisfaction of the Bank. 
XXXVII. Force Majeure:
P a g e 33 | 90
ICICI Bank shall not be liable for any losses caused by its inability or delay in
providing all or any Service or fulfilling any of ICICI Bank’s obligations
hereunder, either wholly or in part, caused by or in connection with any force
majeure events including, but not limited to, restrictions on convertibility,
transferability, requisitions, hacking, involuntary transfers, riot, disturbance,
strikes, lock-outs, bandhs, war, civil strife, burglary, theft, dacoity, accident,
hacking, technical fault including problems related to computers, accessories,
software, printers, fax machines, internet, telephone system and such related
hardware and software beyond the control of ICICI Bank, breach of trust by any
authorised persons, flood, fire, earthquake, act of God, act of any government,
change in regulation or law and other allied acts of regulatory or statutory
nature or if the performance of such obligation or provision of such service
would result in the breach of any law, regulation or other requirement of any
governmental or other authority or on account of any other restriction or
requisition or other circumstances or events whatsoever beyond the control of
the Bank and the Bank shall not be obliged to provide any service or facility or
perform any of its obligations hereunder during the period while the Bank’s
performance is affected by force majeure conditions. The Bank shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage caused to the Customer by reason of any
failure to comply with the Customer instructions, when such failure is caused
due to reasons beyond the control of the Bank, the opinion of the Bank being
final in this regard. 
XXXVIII. Closure of the Account:
i. ICICI Bank reserves the right to close or freeze the Account or terminate the
banking relationship with a customer, after due notice to the Customer at
the Customer’s last known/updated address without assigning any reason
therefor and without any liability 
ii. Notwithstanding and without prejudice to clause XXXVIIII(i), in the following
circumstances, the Bank may and without any liability close/freeze the
Account upon giving the Customer due notice or no notice at all (if the Bank
considers in good faith such abridgment of notice to be necessary or
reasonable) for reasons which may include, but not limited to, the following:
a) In case of the Customer's failure to comply with any provision of
these Terms and Conditions or to pay to the Bank any sum lawfully
due to the Bank for any reason 
b) In case the Bank becomes aware of the death, insanity or incapacity
of the Customer or any signatory 
c) In case any of the documents furnished towards identity and address
proof are found to be fake / forged / defective 
d) The Account opening cheque is returned unpaid for financial reasons/
signature not matching 
e) In case fraudulent / forged / fake cheques / bank drafts or any such
instruments are attempted to be cleared through the Account
P a g e 34 | 90
f) In case of repeated and continuous returns of cheques and Electronic
Clearance Service instructions in the Account due to insufficient
funds. 
g) In case of repeated and continuous failure to maintain requisite
Monthly Average Balance (MAB). 
h) In case a debit balance for reasons, including but not limited to nonrepayment, in case of facilities offered by ICICI Bank, where
repayment is to be made through Customer's Account, reversal of
wrong credit, any temporary overdraft granted to the Customers by
the Bank in relation to any facility or otherwise, is allowed to continue
for more than 90 days in the 
Account 
i) Improper conduct of the Account in terms of volume / type of
transactions 
j) For unsatisfactory conduct of the Account (including but not limited
to failure to update 
KYC, the use of the Account for any unlawful or unethical purpose)
k) Notices from any statutory authority, regulatory authority, order from
any court, tribunals, governmental authority, etc.
l) For any other reasons as the Bank deems fit with prior notice to the
Customer. iii. The Customers shall be solely liable for return of
cheques/dishonouring of any instruments, consequent to such closure
and all costs / charges arising out of such closure/ freezing of the
Account(s). 
iv. Upon closure of the Account(s) for any of the reasons specified above or
otherwise, the Customer shall take steps to collect any balance amount in
the Account, if any and till such time the Customer collects such amounts,
ICICI Bank reserves the right to keep such amounts in a special office
account without any interest being payable on the same. To the extent that
there is a debit balance, the Customer shall remain liable to pay the amount
to the Bank together with interest and service charges in accordance with
the Bank’s prevailing standard procedures 
v. ICICI Bank reserves the right, to close the Account with or without any
further notice - 
a) In case the Account is in debit balance for more than 12 months (6
months w.e.f May 1, 2010) due to reasons, including but not limited
to, non-maintenance of MAB, annual fees for Debit/ATM Cards, ATM
Card interchange charges, etc. 
b) In case the account is in inoperative/dormant status w.e.f April 1,
2018 
c) In accordance with RBI guidelines on DEAF 
d) In case he/she is found to undertake/deal in any type of VC.
P a g e 35 | 90
In case of any credit balances in the account, Customer can approach
branch for activation of the Account and claim the credit balance available
in his/her account. 
 
XXXIX. Aadhaar Authentication/Verification (If applicable):
i. By agreeing to these Terms and Conditions, the Customer(s) has/have
consented that he/she/they have been provided various options by the Bank
for establishing his/her/their identity/address proof for Account opening and
have voluntarily submitted their Aadhaar to the Bank. The Customer hereby
consents that he/she/they have no objection in authenticating
himself/herself/themselves with Aadhaar-based Authentication system or
verifying the genuineness of the Aadhaar through Quick Response (QR)
Code or through such other manner as set out by UIDAI or any other law
from time to time 
ii. The Direct Benefit Transfer (‘DBT’) linked Account of the Customer shall be
used for receiving Government payment across schemes under Section 7 of
the Aadhaar Act, 2016 that they are eligible for and/or any other payment
using the Aadhaar based information 
iii. By agreeing to these Terms and Conditions, the Customer(s) has/have
agreed that he/she/they have been explained about the nature of
information that may be shared upon authentication and they have been
given to understand that their information submitted to the Bank herewith
shall not be used for any purpose other than mentioned above or as per
requirements of law. Also, the Customer(s) declare(s) that all the
information voluntarily furnished by him/her/them to the Bank are true,
correct and complete 
iv. Customer hereby gives consent to use/exchange or share their Aadhaar
Number, 
Aadhaar/identity information for registration of client information or for any
other purpose with UIDAI, ED, NPCI, CKCY, KRA, CERSAI and with any other
authority or regulatory body or as per requirements of law.
XL. Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation:
Each depositor is insured by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee
Corporation up to a maximum of ₹1 lakh or as updated from time to time, for
both principal and interest amount held by him/her in the same right and same
capacity. 
XLI. Other Products
Customer agrees and confirms that he/she wishes to invest in Mutual Funds
(‘MF’) and in this regard, consents to share his/her account details and other
KYC details (including PAN, contact details, etc.) with Securities and Exchange
Board of India, Know Your Client Registration Agencies and other entities as
P a g e 36 | 90
may be required for enabling registration/verification for MF investments.
Customer further authorises the Bank and its representatives to contact
him/her in relation to MF investments. 
ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR OPERATION OF ACCOUNTS 
BY POWER OF ATTORNEY HOLDER:
These Terms and Conditions (‘POA holder Terms and Conditions’) are in
addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank Savings Bank Account Terms
and Conditions and shall apply in the event the Customer has appointed a
Power of Attorney holder (‘POA holder’), through a notarised Power of
Attorney, for the purposes of operation of his/her Account held with ICICI
Bank. In the event of any inconsistency between the POA holder Terms and
Conditions and ICICI Bank Savings Bank Account Terms and Conditions, the
POA holder Terms and Conditions shall prevail. All capitalised terms used
herein but not defined shall have the same meaning as defined under the ICICI
Bank Savings Bank Account Terms and Conditions. 
i. The Customer hereby agrees that he/she shall, at his/her own expense,
indemnify, defend and hold harmless ICICI Bank from and against any and
all liability, any other loss that may arise from or relate to the operation or
use of the Account or the Services or breach, non-performance or
inadequate performance by the POA holder of any of these terms or the
acts, errors, representations, misrepresentations, misconduct or negligence
of the POA holder in performance of their obligations
ii. Under no circumstances shall ICICI Bank be liable to the POA holder for any
direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary damages in
connection with the Account or the 
Services iii. ICICI Bank shall not be liable for any failure to perform any
obligation contained in these POA holder Terms and Conditions or for any loss or
damage whatsoever suffered or incurred by the POA holder, howsoever caused
and whether such loss or damage is attributable (directly or indirectly) to any
dispute or any other matter or circumstances whatsoever. ICICI Bank shall not be
responsible for ensuring that the POA holder operates the Account for the
purposes mentioned in the POA or for monitoring the transactions carried out by
the POA holder in any manner whatsoever. Any dispute regarding the operation
of the Account by the POA holder shall be settled by the Customer directly with
the POA holder without any reference to ICICI Bank. iv. In the event the Customer
wishes to revoke the POA, he/she shall be required to give a notice of revocation
of the POA to ICICI Bank in writing. ICICI Bank shall register/update the said
revocation in its system within 5 (five) working days from receipt of the abovementioned notice. ICICI Bank shall not be liable for any loss / damage / harm that
may result to the Customer due to operation of the Account pending registration
/ updation of revocation of the said POA in the Bank’s system. The indemnities as
P a g e 37 | 90
previously mentioned shall continue notwithstanding the termination of the
Account. 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE FOR ACCOUNT OPENING AND
OPERATION OF CERTAIN
SPECIFIC ACCOUNT VARIANTS:1
A. Saving Account
These terms and conditions pertaining to Saving account are in addition to and
not in derogation of 
ICICI Bank Savings Bank Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any 
inconsistency, the terms and conditions of ICICI Bank Savings Bank Account 
Terms and Conditions as set out herein for saving account shall prevail for all 
intents and purposes with respect to Saving account only. All capitalized 
terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings 
ascribed to them in the Terms and Conditions.
1. Programme: Eligibility & Criteria
The Customer understands that by enrolling into the “Programme”, the
Customer will be required to maintain program eligibility criteria or threshold
values as defined hereunder and as may be revised from time to time at the
sole discretion of ICICI Bank at the end of every calendar quarter.
The Customer agrees that any revision to the eligibility criteria or threshold
values shall be updated by revision of these Terms and Conditions and shall be
binding and effective from the date on which the Terms and Conditions are
updated. Continuous usage of the Account shall be deemed to be considered
as an acceptance of any change in the Terms and Conditions.
There are 3 Programme available basis eligibility criteria and thresholds
1. Select Banking 
2. Wealth Management 
1 These terms shall be applicable from 1st Aug 2025. Details related to eligibility, features, 
rates, charges and other general information on these account variants, schedule of charges 
please refer to the Website icicibank.com .
P a g e 38 | 90
3. Private Banking 
If a customer enrols in any of the program mentioned above, they will be eligible
for additional programbased benefits. 
Customers are provided grace period of 12 months from the date of account
opening to fulfil the eligibility requirements and program criteria applicable to
the enrolled program. ICICI Bank has right to review the grading of the
Customers periodically and regrade customers basis Program eligibility criteria
and thresholds actually maintained. 
2. Non-Maintenance of MAB
The Customer shall be required to maintain the Monthly Average Balance
(MAB) or program Eligibility criteria threshold as per the respective program
specified in program threshold available in the schedule of charges section
(SOC). If a customer fails to maintain the required Monthly Average Balance
(MAB) or does not meet the program eligibility criteria or threshold for any
program non-maintenance charges will be levied by the bank. These charges
are applied as per the charges mention in schedule of charges. The bank
reserves the right to debit the non-maintenance fee directly from the
customer’s account without prior notice. It is the responsibility of the account
holder to ensure compliance with the minimum balance or program eligibility
requirements to avoid such charges. Customers are advised to refer to the
latest Schedule of Charges available on the bank’s website or at the branch
to stay informed about applicable thresholds and associated penalties.
3. Debit Card:
All eligible Account holders will be issued a debit card based on the account or
program they are enrolled in. The terms of usage of the Debit Card shall be
governed by the terms of the respective debit card variant hosted on
icicibank.com. 
4. Program-Based Debit Card Eligibility & Lounge Access Conditions
Customers who enrol in specific programs are eligible for premium debit card
linked to their program. 
5. Migration of the account once customer attain age of 60 years (Senior 
citizen):
P a g e 39 | 90
Upon the Customer attaining age of 60 years (Senior citizen), ICICI Bank shall
have the right to migrate customers in senior citizen variant and revised
Schedule of charges will be applicable for senior citizens.
B. SAVINGS ACCOUNT FOR KIDS (GUARDIAN OPERATED) (IF 
APPLICABLE)2
The Customer, hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third party from time to 
time, for all transactions, products, offers and services for and in respect of the
Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) . These terms and conditions 
pertaining to the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) as mentioned
in this Section of the Terms and Conditions are in addition and not in 
derogation to ICICI Bank’s savings bank account Terms and Conditions. To the
extent of any inconsistency, the terms and conditions as set out herein for
Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) shall prevail for all intents and 
purposes with respect to Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) only. 
All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective 
meanings ascribed to it in the Terms and Conditions
1. Definitions:
(i) “Guardian” means the guardian of the User, who is a minor, at whose request
ICICI Bank issues the login id. 
2. Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) Opening:
The Customer hereby undertakes that the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian
Operated) shall be opened and operated, at all times, by Guardian/parent for
the benefit of the minor irrespective of the channel / mode of operation/account
opening. ICICI Bank shall honour any transactions / instructions as received by
it through any mode / channel with respect to the Savings Account for Kids
(Guardian Operated) on the assumption that the same are being carried out /
provided by the Guardian / parent for the benefit of the minor without
independent verification thereof. The Savings Account for Kids (Guardian
Operated) shall be either a savings account or a fixed/recurring term deposit. It
is mandatory for the Guardian/Parent to have an existing ICICI Bank savings
account. In case where Guardian/Parent do not hold an ICICI Bank savings
account, the Customer’s and Guardian/Parent’s accounts can be opened
simultaneously. 
2 These terms shall be applicable from 1st Aug 2025. Details related to eligibility, features,
rates, charges and other general information on these account variants, schedule of charges
please refer to the icicibank.com
P a g e 40 | 90
3. Operating Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated):
A Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) shall be opened in the name
of minor under guardianship. 
The mode of operation, in this Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated)
will be single. iii. In case of requirement of mode of operation to be by both the
Guardians (mother and father), the operations will be on Either or Survivor or
joint basis by both the Guardians. Such Savings Account for Kids (Guardian
Operated) with mode of operation to be by both the Guardians will be opened
in accordance with the applicable laws and policies of ICICI Bank, which may
be revised from time to time. iv. In case the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian
Operated) is to be opened as a fixed / recurring term deposit, the Guardian is
not required to have an existing savings account. 
v. That as on date of filling the account opening form, the said Guardian of the
Applicant is the natural/court appointed Guardian of the Applicant. vi. That
the Guardian shall represent the said minor in all transaction in connection
with Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) opened with ICICI Bank.
vii. The Guardian shall utilize the money withdrawn from the Savings Account
for Kids (Guardian Operated) for the sole benefit of the minor. The Guardian 
shall further indemnify ICICI Bank against any claims of the minor for any 
withdrawal/transaction made by the Guardian in Savings Account for Kids 
(Guardian Operated).
viii.The Guardian hereby agrees, confirms and authorizes issuance of ICICI 
Bank debit card and provision of internet banking (including but not limited to
the issuance of login ID and password to the minor), phone banking and 
mobile banking services.
4. Cheque Book:
Personalized cheque book will be issued to the Guardian in the name of minor
under Guardianship. 
5. Non-Transferability:
The Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) and the Services can be
used by the Guardian/parent in order to operate the Savings Account for Kids
(Guardian Operated) on behalf of the minor. 
6. Conversion of the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) to a 
Savings account
A series of communication from ICICI Bank shall be sent to the Customer
intimating him about the facility of conversion of the Customer’s Young Stars
Account Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) to a regular Savings
account through letter/E-mail and SMS. Upon the Customer attaining majority,
ICICI Bank shall have the right to freeze the Savings Account for Kids
(Guardian Operated). Such freeze shall be released only upon the fulfilment of
all account conversion formalities by the Customer (minor) as applicable to
P a g e 41 | 90
enable conversion of a Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) to a
Savings account. In case of an existing Programme, customer will continue to
remain under same programme. A confirmation will be obtained from the
customer on attaining majority that he/she ratifies transactions made in
his/her Account during his/her minority, the final balance in his/her account
before conversion. Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated)
7. On Attaining Majority:
Any cheques issued by Guardian/parent prior to the date of the Customer
attaining majority and which has been presented for clearing after the
conversion of the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated) shall not be
honoured by ICICI Bank. Upon the Customer attaining majority, the
Guardian/parents shall not be permitted to operate the Savings Account for
Kids (Guardian Operated). 
8. Additional terms and conditions for Internet/Mobile Banking:
For terms and conditions for issuance of login and password for retail internet
banking/Mobile Banking for minors, please refer below: 
i. “User”: for login id password and other permissible activities under login
password, it shall mean the minor to whom an internet banking login id and
password have been issued by ICICI Bank, at the request of the Guardian, as
defined below/Parent. 
ii. For login id and password and other permissible activities under
transaction id password, it shall mean the Guardian/Parent. iii. “Parties”
means the Guardian/Parent and ICICI Bank. 
All the capitalised words and expressions used herein, but not defined shall
have the same meaning respectively assigned to them under Terms for Internet
Banking. 
All indemnities/undertakings/representations to be made by the User in respect
of the Terms & Conditions of internet banking shall be deemed to have been
made by the Guardian/Parent. 
8.1 UNDERTAKINGS BY GUARDIAN/PARENT:
The Guardian/parent agrees, confirms and undertakes that:
a) ICICI Bank is issuing the login id and password to the User, who is a minor
at the request of and at the sole risk and liability of the Guardian/parent.
b) The login id and password will be issued by ICICI Bank to the User who is
the Guardian/parent himself, on the specific understanding that all amounts
paid to or to the order of the User on the basis of the said login id and
password and all commission/fees, interest, costs, charges, expenses in
relation thereto shall be debited to the Account. 
c) The Guardian is solely and exclusively bound by these terms and
conditions for issue of the login and password to the minor/ the
Guardian/parent as applicable and the Guardian/parent further agrees,
P a g e 42 | 90
confirms and undertake that he is solely and exclusively liable and responsible
for all charges/expenses/other monies incurred/due and payable on the
internet and debited by ICICI Bank from the Account. 
d) The issue of the login id and password is subject to there being adequate
credit balance in the Account (in accordance with ICICI Bank’s applicable
rules). 
e) The User shall have no claim for damages or otherwise against ICICI Bank
or its affiliates, in the event of refusal by any website, to honour the
transaction, presented by the User, on the grounds of his minority or in the
event that the daily limit has been exhausted or otherwise howsoever.
f) The Guardian/parent shall, without demur or default, make payment to
ICICI bank of all amounts due within 7 (seven) days of ICICI Bank notifying the
Guardian/parent of the same, so as to bring the Account to the required
minimum credit balance, failing which the ICICI Bank may close the Account
and cancel login id and password without prejudice to ICICI Bank’s right to
recover the balance outstanding in the Account. 
g) A notice signed by an officer of ICICI Bank shall be conclusive evidence of
the fact of the amount outstanding and the Guardian/parent shall not be
entitled to question or dispute the same. 
h) The death or insolvency of the Guardian/parent or the fact that the User
has attained the age of majority shall not affect the liability of the
Guardian/parent hereunder. The liability of the Guardian/parent will be
binding on his/ her/their heirs, executors and administrators and his/her/its
estate and effects. The Guardian/Parent shall do, performs and execute and
cause to be done, performed and executed any act, deed, matter or thing
which ICICI Bank may require for ICICI Bank’s further security.
i) Any notice from ICICI Bank in respect of the Account/ may be given by ICICI
Bank by delivering it to the Guardian/parent via electronic mode or to the
communication address registered in the account. The Guardian/parent must
notify ICICI Bank of any change to his/her/their address. Proof of posting to
such last notified address shall be conclusive proof of the notification at the
time when it ought to be delivered in due course by the post even if the
notification may be returned through the post undelivered. ICICI Bank may
also give notice of variation of these additional terms and conditions by
displaying a notice on or within the immediate vicinity of the site of an
ATM/branch of ICICI Bank or by a press advertisement or by a message in the
Account Statement. 
j) The Guardian/parent hereby agrees, undertakes to indemnify, defend and
hold harmless ICICI Bank and its respective directors, officers, employees,
representatives, agents and assigns from and against any and all loss /
liability / expense / damages / costs (including legal costs and lawyer's fees
incurred) in relation to any judgments, suit, action, claims, regulatory
investigation or action arising out of: 
P a g e 43 | 90
i. a breach by the Guardian/parent of its obligations under the terms and
conditions contained herein ii. The acts, errors, representations,
misrepresentations, wilful misconduct or negligence of
Guardian/parents in performance of the Guardian’s/parent’s obligations
under the terms and conditions contained herein iii. The issuance of the
login id and password to the User 
iv. Any transaction done / instruction provided / information given by the
User / Guardian / parent with respect to the Account through ICICI
Bank's internet banking whether the same is done directly from the ICICI
Bank internet banking login id of the User or by virtue of it being linked
with the Guardian's / parent's ICICI Bank internet banking login id.
The Guardian/parent hereby declares that this indemnity is in addition
to and not by way of limitation of or in substitution for, any other
indemnity or security that the ICICI Bank may hold and will not revoke
or limit any such other indemnity. 
9. Terms and Conditions for issuance of debit card to Customer:
Except to the extent as specified in the terms and conditions contained herein,
the terms & conditions for debit card shall apply to the issuance of the debit
card to the Customer holding a Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated).
9.1. Definitions:
I. “Cardholder” means the minor, to whom a Debit Card is issued by ICICI Bank,
at the request of the 
Guardian/ Parent 
II. “Parties” means the Guardian and ICICI Bank. 
All the capitalised words and expressions used herein but not defined shall
have the same meaning respectively assigned to them under Savings Account
for Kids (Guardian Operated) Terms. All
indemnities/undertakings/representations to be made by the Cardholder in
respect of the terms and conditions of debit cards shall be deemed to have
been made by the Guardian/parent and he/she is solely and exclusively liable
and responsible for all charges/expenses/other monies incurred/due and
payable on the debit card and will be debited by ICICI Bank from the Savings
Account for Kids (Guardian Operated). 
9.2. UNDERTAKINGS BY GUARDIAN/PARENT:
The Guardian/ parent agrees, confirms and undertakes that:
i. ICICI Bank is issuing a Debit Card as per programme criteria and eligibility
to the Cardholder at its own discretion and solely at the request of and at the
P a g e 44 | 90
sole risk and liability of the Guardian/ parent. It may be withdrawn by ICICI
Bank at any time at its sole discretion ii. The Guardian/parent is the legal
and/or natural guardian of the Cardholder. iii. The Debit Card will be issued
by ICICI Bank to the Cardholder on the specific understanding that all
amounts paid to or to the order of the Cardholder on the basis of the said
debit card and all commission/fees, interest, costs, charges, expenses in
relation thereto shall be debited to the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian
Operated). iv. All charge slips in respect of the Debit Card signed by the
Cardholder shall be deemed to have been signed by the Guardian/parent.
v. The issue of the Debit Card to the Cardholder by ICICI Bank at the sole and
exclusive request of the Guardian/ parent constitutes supply by the
Guardian/parent of necessaries suitable to the condition in life of the
Cardholder in terms of section 68 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, subject to
there being adequate credit balance in the Account (in accordance with ICICI
Bank’s applicable rules) the Cardholder will be permitted to use the debit card
for cash withdrawals and for expenses/ purchases of goods by use of the
Debit Card in accordance with the daily limit set at the time of opening the
account (the ‘daily limit’) or such other further amount as ICICI Bank may
specify, and ICICI Bank shall be entitled to refuse to authorize any intended
withdrawal/ expenses/ purchases if the amount of such
withdrawal/expenses/purchase is wholly or in part in excess of such daily
limit, even though there may be adequate balance in the Savings Account for
Kids (Guardian Operated). vi. The Guardian/parent/ Cardholder shall have no
claim for damages or otherwise against ICICI Bank or its affiliates, in the event
of refusal by any person, to honour the Debit Card, presented by the
Cardholder, on the grounds of his minority or in the event that the daily limit
has been exhausted or otherwise. vii. ICICI Bank shall be entitled to refuse
authorization for any withdrawal/purchase/expenses in excess of the daily
limits or in the event of ICICI Bank being under a reasonable apprehension
that a fraud is sought to be perpetrated, or there being circumstances, which
in the reasonable opinion of ICICI Bank, merit that authorization should be
refused. Without prejudice to the provisions of the foregoing clause, if ICICI
Bank acting in good faith, permits withdrawals/purchases/ expenses in excess
of the daily limit, the debit made to the Account by ICICI Bank in excess of the
available credit balance, shall be treated as a temporary overdraft (however
nothing contained in this clause shall entitle the Guardian/parent to claim
overdraft) and will carry interest as per ICICI Bank’s rules generally applicable
to overdraft accounts. viii. The Debit Card issued to the Cardholder shall not
be used for purchase of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and/ or similar
goods or services by the Cardholder. The Guardian/parent further agrees,
confirms and undertakes that in the event that expenses are incurred on the
debit card issued by the Cardholder which pertain to the purchase of any or
all of the aforesaid goods and/or services, the Guardian/parent shall be
deemed to have consented to the said expenses being incurred. ix. The
P a g e 45 | 90
continuance of the Debit Card issued to the Cardholder, being a special facility
issued at the request of the Guardian/parent, will be solely dependent on the
continuation of the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated).
x. The Guardian/parent shall, without demur or default, make payment to ICICI
Bank of all amounts due within 7 (seven) days of ICICI Bank notifying the
Guardian/parent of the same, so as to bring the Account to the required
minimum credit balance, failing which the ICICI Bank may close the Account
and cancel the Card without prejudice to ICICI Bank’s right to recover the
balance outstanding in the Account. A notice signed by an officer of ICICI Bank
shall be conclusive evidence of the fact of the amount outstanding and the
Guardian/parent shall not be entitled to question or dispute the same. xi. The
death or insolvency of the Guardian/parent or the fact that the minor has
attained the age of majority shall not affect the liability of the Guardian/parent
hereunder. The liability of the Guardian will be binding on his/her/their heirs,
executors and administrators and his/her/its estate and effects. The
Guardian/parent shall do, perform and execute and cause to be done,
performed and executed any act, deed, matter or thing which ICICI Bank may
require for ICICI Bank’s further security. xii. Any notice from ICICI Bank in
respect of the Savings Account for Kids (Guardian Operated)/Debit Card may
be given by ICICI Bank by delivering it to the Guardian/parent personally or by
posting it to the latest address recorded with ICICI Bank. The Guardian/parent
must notify ICICI Bank of any change to his/her/their address. Proof of posting
to such last notified address shall be conclusive proof of the notification at the
time when it ought to be delivered in due course by the post even if the
notification may be returned through the post undelivered. xiii. ICICI Bank
may also give notice of variation of the Terms for Debit Card by displaying a
notice on or within the immediate vicinity of the site of an ATM/branch of ICICI
Bank, on its website www.icicibank.co m , by a press advertisement or by a
message in the Account Statement. xiv. The Guardian hereby agrees,
undertakes to indemnify, defend and hold harmless ICICI Bank and its
respective directors, officers, employees, representatives, agents and assigns
from and against any and all liability including but not limited to liabilities to
third parties, judgments, damages, losses, claims, costs and expenses,
including attorneys’ fees and expenses arising from or related to:
i. A breach by the Guardian/parent of its obligations under these terms
and conditions ii. The acts, errors, representations, misrepresentations,
willful misconduct or negligence of Guardian/parent in performance of
the Guardian’s/parent’s obligations under these terms and conditions
iii. The issuance of the Debit Card to the Cardholder xv. The Guardian 
hereby declares that this Indemnity is in addition to and not by way of 
limitation of or in substitution for, any other indemnity or security that the 
ICICI Bank may hold or any other indemnity which the Guardian may have 
previously given to ICICI Bank or may hereafter give to ICICI Bank, and that 
this indemnity will not evoke or limit any such other indemnity.
P a g e 46 | 90
C. Savings Account for Kids (Self operated) (IF APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this account variant, please refer to the Website (product page)
for more information. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third party from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and in respect of the
“Savings Account for Kids (Self operated)”, or ICICI Bank's other products and
services, shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions.
These terms and conditions pertaining to the Savings Account for Kids (Self
operated) as mentioned in this section of the Terms and Conditions are in
addition and not in derogation to ICICI Bank’s savings bank account Terms
and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the terms and conditions
as set out herein for Savings Account for Kids (Self operated) shall prevail for
all intents and purposes with respect to Savings Account for Kids (Self
operated) only. All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have
the respective meanings ascribed to it in the Terms and Conditions
1. Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in section I of the Terms and Conditions
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings as set herein below
unless the context indicates otherwise with respect to Savings Account for
Kids (Self operated): 
i. “Customer” shall mean the minor, above the age of ten years, holding an
Account with ICICI Bank, with the mode of operation as ‘single’.
2. Operating Smart Star Account:
i. A Savings Account for Kids (Self operated) shall be opened only in the name
of minor. 
ii. The mode of operation in such account will be single. The Guardian/parent
of the Customer will also be responsible for transactions undertaken by the
Customer during the period of his/her minority. iii. The cumulative value of
the total debits (“Total Debit Limit”) in the account in a financial year is
restricted for the Savings Account for Kids (Self operated) in the following
manner: - 
a) For minor operated Savings accounts without the Guardian/parent’s
consent the Total Debit Limit is₹1,00,000. 
b) For minor operated Savings accounts with the Guardian/Parent’s
consent (the Total Debit Limit is ₹2,00,000. 
P a g e 47 | 90
c) For minor operated Savings accounts (Select Banking variant) with
the Guardian/Parent’s consent the Total Debit Limit is ₹3,00,000.
d) For minor operated Savings accounts (Wealth 
Management variant) with the 
Guardian/Parent’s consent the Total Debit Limit is ₹5,00,000.
e) For minor operated Savings accounts (Private Banking variant)
accounts with the Guardian/Parent’s consent the Total Debit Limit is
₹6,00,000. 
The Customer/Guardian/Parent understands and agrees that ICICI Bank
retains the right to freeze operation of the Savings Account for Kids (Self
operated), if the cumulative value of the total debits in the account in a
financial year exceeds the Total Debit Limit, as applicable to the particular
Savings Account for Kids (Self operated). 
3. Cheque Book:
Personalized cheque book will be issued to the Customer.
4. Conversion of the Smart Star Account to a regular savings account:
Upon the Customer attaining majority, ICICI Bank shall have the right to freeze
the Savings Account for Kids (Self operated). Such freeze shall be released
only upon the fulfilment of all account conversion formalities by the Customer
as applicable, to enable conversion of Savings Account for Kids (Self
operated)to a Savings account. In case of an existing programme, customer
will continue to remain under same programme and on conversion of account,
the annual Total Debit Limit which was set on the Self-operated account will
be removed from the Savings account. . For all details on the eligibility,
features, rates and charges and general information on this account variant,
please refer to the specific product page on the website.
D. 3-in-1 Accounts for students/Saving account for Student (IF 
APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this account variant, please refer to the Website (product page)
and Schedule of charges (SOC) for more information. The Customer hereby
agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and conditions, as may be
prescribed by ICICI Bank from time to time, for all transactions, products and
services including but not limited to 3-in-1 Accounts for students/Saving
P a g e 48 | 90
account for Student, or ICICI Bank's other products and services and shall
constitute legally binding and valid transactions. 
These terms and conditions pertaining to the 3-in-1 Accounts for
students/Saving account for Student for students as mentioned in this
section of the Terms and Conditions (the” 3-in-1 Accounts for
students/Saving account for Student”) are in addition and not in derogation
to ICICI Bank’s savings bank account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of
any inconsistency, the terms and conditions as set out herein for 3-in-1
Accounts for students/Saving account for Student for students shall prevail
for all intents and purposes with respect to 3-in-1 Accounts for
students/Saving account for Student only. 
1. Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in section I of the Terms and Conditions
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings as set herein below
unless the context indicates otherwise with respect to 3-in-1 Accounts for
students 3-in-1 Accounts for students/Saving account for Student: 
i. “Customer” shall mean the student at select premium institutes,
between 17- 35 years of age, holding an Account with ICICI Bank, with
the mode of operation as ‘single’. 
2. 3-in-1 Accounts for students/Saving account for Student students
account Opening:
The Customer has provided proof of admission to the premium institute i.e.
Student ID card or Admission Letter on College letterhead with a seal and the
signature of an authorized signatory of the Institute during the time of account
opening. In the case that the Customer is 17 years of age, the customer shall
provide declaration agreeing to the following clause: 
“I hereby declare that my continued operation of the account upon attaining
majority can be considered as my acceptance to the terms and conditions
applicable in relation to said account as well as other products and services
availed by me (including but not limited to internet banking, mobile banking
etc). 
All other terms & conditions shall be applicable as per Regular Savings Account.
 E. Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBD Account) (if applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this account variant, please refer to the website (product page).
P a g e 49 | 90
The Terms and Conditions pertaining to the Basic Savings Bank Deposit
Account (BSBD Account) as mentioned in this section of the Terms and
Conditions (BSBD Terms) are in addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank
Savings Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the
Terms and Conditions as set out herein for BSBD Account will prevail for all
intents and purposes with respect to BSBD Account only. All capitalised terms
used but not defined herein will have the respective meanings ascribed to them
in the Terms and Conditions. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
BSBD Account or ICICI Bank's other products and services, which will
constitute legally binding and valid transactions. 
The Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account is available only for resident Indians
(or Foreign Nationals fulfilling the residency criteria) above the age of 18 years.
The Account is not available to individuals in the capacity of Karta of Hindu
Undivided Family (HUF), Non-Resident Indians (NRI) and foreign nationals not
completing residency criteria as per the Income Tax Law.
The Customer confirms that he/she does not have any BSBD Account with ICICI
Bank or any other Bank. The Customer also agrees and confirms that he/she
does not have any existing Savings Account with ICICI Bank prior to opening
of BSBD Account and is aware that with an existing BSBD Account, the
customer cannot open another BSBD Account or regular Savings Account with
ICICI Bank. In case another Savings Account is identified for an existing BSBD
Account customer, then ICICI Bank will close the latest opened Savings Account
without any further notice, due to the incorrect/false declaration provided by
the Customer. For e.g. if an existing BSBD Account Customer has opened a
regular Savings Account subsequently, the regular Savings Account will be
closed and if the regular Savings Account holder has opened a BSBD Account
subsequently, the BSBD Account will be closed. 
i. Fees and charges 
a) There is no Monthly Average Balance requirement for this account.
b) The Bank will issue an ATM-cum-Debit Card free of cost.
c) The Customer will be eligible for unlimited deposits through various modes.
ii. Transaction charges 
All banking transactions like issuance/revalidation/cancellation of DD/PO,
outstation cheque clearing etc. are subject to charges. The Bank may charge
the Customer such service charges as decided by the Bank from time to time
P a g e 50 | 90
for all or any of the facilities availed by the Customer as provided by the Bank
with intimation to the Customer. Further, any government charges, duties or
taxes arising due to the provision of any of the facilities, if imposed upon the
Bank (either directly or indirectly), will be debited from the Customer's
account. 
F. Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA) (‘Small Deposit Account’) 
(If applicable)
The Customer agrees and understands that a Small Deposit Account is opened
for those Customers who do not have KYC documents. This account can be
opened with a recent photograph and signature of the Customer.
All the BSBDA Terms shall apply to Small Deposit Accounts. In addition to the
BSBDA Terms, the Customer agrees to the restrictions on operations for Small
Deposit Accounts and that he/ she is aware that the Small Deposit Account will
be freeze marked if: 
▪ If the total withdrawal in a month exceeds ₹10,000.
▪ If the account balance exceeds ₹50,000 at any point of time.
▪ If the total credit in the account exceeds ₹100,000 in a financial year.
If there is foreign remittance in the Small Deposit Account
▪
i. The Customer needs to submit the evidence of having applied for a KYC
document within 12 months of opening the BSBDA or else the account will be
freeze marked without any prior information. ii. The Customer has to submit the
KYC documents within 24 months from opening the Small Deposit
Account or else, the account will be freeze marked without any prior
information. iii. Regarding the Small Deposit Account being freeze
marked, the Customer can get the account activated anytime by submitting
the valid KYC documents at any ICICI Bank Branch. 
G. Salary Account (if applicable)
i. The primary account holder, while being employed acknowledges and
confirms that the employer has the full right to reverse any instruction given
by him/her to credit the Account for any amount and the Customer, will not
dispute or hold the Bank responsible for any such debits in the Account. For
this purpose, the entity/ organization from whom the last salary credit has
been received shall be considered the employer. 
ii. There is no MAB requirement for Salary Account. However, in case there
are no salary credits for 3 consecutive months, even if other transactions
are being conducted, then ICICI Bank may choose to (with or without notice
to the Customer): 
1. Not treat such a Salary Account as a salary variant; and/or
P a g e 51 | 90
2. Migrate the Salary Account to a variant other than the Salary
variant held by the Customer and the Customer may/may not
be required to maintain the MAB as applicable from time to
time on the revised Account variant and shall have to comply
with the Schedule of Charges and other Terms and Conditions
as applicable to the specific Account variant.
 The Customer understands that post-conversion of the Salary Account to a
non-salary variant (as detailed above), if ICICI Bank identifies that there are
salary credits received in the Account for 3 consecutive months, ICICI Bank at
its sole discretion has the right with or without prior notice or intimation to
convert the said Account back to a Salary Account variant in line with the salary
credits received and the Customer shall have to comply with the Terms and
Conditions of the Salary Account as applicable. 
 In addition to other Account closure rights of ICICI Bank, in the event there are
no salary credits for 3 consecutive months and there are no transactions in the
Salary Account/ the Salary Account is not maintained by the Customer in a
manner satisfactory to ICICI Bank, ICICI Bank also reserves the right to close
the Salary Account and terminate the relationship or to freeze mark all
operations in the Salary Account. 
FAMILY BANKING (IF APPLICABLE)
SAVINGS FAMILY BANKING (IF APPLICABLE)
These terms and conditions (the “Terms”) shall apply to the customer for
availing the Family Banking Programme (“Programme”). 
These Terms shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the terms and
conditions in relation to Select Banking, Wealth Programme, Salary and Private
Banking Programme, and other terms and conditions applicable to Savings
accounts individually constituting the Family ID, as updated from time to time.
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between these Terms and Savings
Account terms and conditions, these Terms shall prevail, as updated from time
to time. 
I. CREATION AND OPERATION OF FAMILY ID
1. All accounts under Family Banking shall be linked with one Family ID
2. A Family ID can be created by linking savings account of family members
held with ICICI Bank to the Family ID sought to be created with ICICI Bank.
In Select Family Banking, Wealth Family and Private Family a minimum
of two (2) and maximum of ten (10) family member accounts can be
P a g e 52 | 90
linked and added to a Family ID. In Salary Family a minimum of 2 and
maximum of 6 family members accounts can be linked and added to
Family ID. All account holders linked under a Family ID are collectively
called “Family Members” and accounts held by such Family Members
(other than that of the Primary Account Holder) are referred to as
“Member Accounts”. 
3. Each Family ID shall have a designated Primary Account Holder for the
Family ID. 
4. The Primary Account Holder shall be the first and primary point of contact
for ICICI Bank in relation to the Family ID and Programme/s.
5. ICICI Bank may create/modify a Family ID basis consent obtained by the
Primary Account Holder on behalf of Family Members. This may impact
product variant and charges of all family members 
6. The following types of savings account shall not be eligible to be linked
and/or added to the Family 
ID. 
1. Basic Savings Bank Deposits Account, 
2. No Frills 
3. Non-regularised online (Non face to face) accounts
4. Unfunded Salary accounts. 
7. The following types of savings account can be added to Family ID as a
Member Account, but not as a Primary Account. 
1. Minor accounts 
2. HUF accounts 
3. NRI accounts. 
8. ICICI Bank reserves the right to delete/dissolve/discontinue the Family ID
if a minimum 2 accounts are not linked to the Family ID.
9. Post successful creation of Family ID, the benefits offered/accruing under
the relevant Programme shall be offered to all the Family Members linked
under the Family ID. 
10. The accounts linked to the Family ID shall be eligible for certain
benefits/privileges, only till such time as the Family ID is active.
11. On linking under Family ID, the benefits of existing product will be
forfeited and each account mapped under the Family ID would get
facilities/benefits according to the Programme status. However, in case
of a Salary account is being linked to a Family ID, it will continue to have
benefits of salary account Salary Account variant will be modified as per
the type of family ID. 
P a g e 53 | 90
12. In the event, the Primary Account Holder dies or becomes ineligible, or for
whatsoever reason is deemed to be unfit to continue to maintain savings
accounts with the Bank, the Family ID shall be dissolved.
13. Upon dissolution of the Family ID, for any reason whatsoever, all future
services/benefits/privileges shall cease forthwith, and already availed
benefits/privileges (under the Programme) shall be automatically
withdrawn from all Family Members. 
14. Family Members shall be responsible for the privacy and protection of the
data/details/documents/PIN/account numbers of the Family ID and will be
responsible for sharing any such data with any third parties.
15. Linking an account to the Family ID does not grant any access, or permit
other Family Members to view/make any requests / instructions in that /
other linked account/s. 
16. It would be the responsibility of the Member Accounts and Primary
Account Holder to communicate the death of any Family Members to the
Bank. 
17. Each of the Family Members further agrees to inform ICICI Bank of any
change in the Primary Account linked to the Family ID, in the event of
death of Account Holder /account closure/conversion from Resident to
Non Resident status of the Primary Account 
18. Tax Deduction at Source shall be at the Family Member account level only.
III. ADDITION/MODIFICATION/UPGRADE OF A FAMILY ID
Family Banking Scenario Channel Consent
Family id Creation Physical 
Form
1- Signature consent required from 
all
members
2- If members don’t give signature 
consent, an opt-out email/sms sent 
to all Secondary Members. Members
can call on Customer care if they 
wish to opt-out
Digital 
Channel
An opt-out email/sms sent to all 
Secondary Members. Members can call 
on Customer care if they wish to optout
(iMobile &
RIB)
Family id Delinking
Physical Signature consent required from 
P a g e 54 | 90
Form Primary member & member to be 
delinked
Family id Closure
Physical 
Form
Signature consent required from 
Primary members & all secondary 
members
Family id Upgrade & Regrade
Physical 
Form
Signature consent required from 
Primary member
Delinking of Primary Account 
Holder**
Physical 
Form
Signature consent required from 
Primary members & all secondary 
members
**In case of delinking of the Primary Account Holder account, the Family ID will
be closed. 
Upgrading the Family ID:
The Bank at its sole discretion may upgrade the Family ID to a higher variant
on the basis of: 
1. A prior written request of Primary Member; or 
2. Eligibility and relationship value of the Family Members,
Upon being upgraded to a higher variant, the following will apply to the Family
ID: 
1. the Family ID would be required to maintain the operation standards (eg:
Program Eligibility Criteria) for such upgraded program
2. existing services/benefits/privileges shall cease and the
services/benefits/privileges linked to the upgraded program shall apply.
III. CATEGORIES OF FAMILY BANKING
1. Select Family 
2. Wealth Family 
3. Private Family 
4. Salary Family 
IV. ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR SALARY FAMILY BANKING
PROGRAMME
1. For Salary Family, Primary Account has to be to be a salary savings account
holder and also be part of the corporate salary relationship of ICICI bank. All
accounts being added to the Family ID will be upgraded to its equivalent
companion/product variant. 
2. In case, for whatsoever reason, salary credits are not received for three
3consecutive months in the Primary Account Holder’s account, the Bank
P a g e 55 | 90
reserves the rights to dissolve the Family ID and downgrade the accounts
to a base variant post intimating the Family Members. 
3. ICICI Bank Staff and Defence Salary account will not be modified during
family ID creation 
V. PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
To view the Program Eligibility Criteria that needs to be maintained for the
categories of Family Banking, the customer can click here for Schedule of
charges and click here to view detailed family banking benefits
www.icicibank.com 
Notes:
1. The Program Eligibility Criteria needs to be maintained collectively at Family
ID level only. For clarity, Program Eligibility Criteria (specified herein or on
the Website) shall be maintained collectively in all the accounts or in a single
account linked to Family ID. 
2. In the event, Program Eligibility Criteria is not met at any point in time, the
Bank may provide a written notice of 30 days to the Primary Account holder
to ensure the Program Eligibility Criteria is met within the aforementioned
period, failing which, the Bank shall have the right to
regrade/discontinue/withdraw/revoke the services/benefits/privileges
provided under the Programme without any further notice.
3. ICICI Bank may review banking relationship periodically and reserve the
right to withdraw partial/full benefits of the Programme.
VI. RIGHT TO OPT-OUT OF FAMILY ID
1. On receipt of request for creation of Family ID, the Bank shall send
communication via E-mail and SMS to all the Family Members being linked
in the Family ID informing them if they do not wish to link their account, they
have a right to opt out by calling our Customer Care or visiting their nearest
ICICI Bank branch. 
2. In case any Family Member wishes to opt out of the creation of Family ID
and/or declines the family linking request, such Family Members shall be
duly excluded from such Family ID when created by the Bank. In the event
the Primary Account Holder chooses to close his/her relationship with the
Bank post creation of Family ID, or ceases to exist/de-links from the Family
ID, the Family ID shall stand dissolved and the original obligations of all the
linked family members shall revert to base variant of the savings product
and be governed as per the terms and conditions applicable to the account
variant. 
3. In the event any of the Family Member chooses to close his/her relationship
with the Bank post creation of Family ID or ceases to exist/de-links from the
Family ID, the benefits under the Programme shall be cancelled to the exiting
P a g e 56 | 90
member and the obligations of savings variant account mentioned on the
de-linking form and its terms and conditions will be applicable to such
account holder. 
4. Additionally, prior to linking of accounts to Family ID, i.e, at the stage when
the linking request is pending, an account holder can provide a written
request to ICICI Bank to not link the account to the Family ID. However,
depending upon the stage at which the request is pending, if the account
ends up getting linked and benefits become applicable, Account Holder will
not hold ICICI Bank liable and ICICI Bank will take steps promptly to delink
the account. 
5. Any Family Member Account from the Family ID can be de-linked at any
point in time by the respective Family Member by giving a prior written
request for de-linking at nearest ICICI Bank Branch. 
VII. INDEMNIFICATION
1. The Family Members agree to indemnify and hold harmless ICICI Bank and
its affiliates from and against any and all liability, or any other loss that may
occur, if any claims are raised by any Family Members, their
representatives/heirs or any third party against the Bank, pursuant to the
Family ID creation and linking of the Family Members account to the Family
ID under the Programme. 
2. Further, Family members agree to indemnify ICICI Bank against any claims/
loss/ damages as may be suffered by ICICI Bank as a result of providing me
this Programme and the products and/or services thereto.
3. Family members agree and undertake to hold ICICI Bank, its directors,
employees harmless if any claims are raised by any Family Members, their
representatives/heirs against the Bank, pursuant to the Family ID creation
and linking of the Members to the Family ID. 
VIII. LIEN AND SET-OFF
1. I hereby agree and confirm that my instructions herein shall not be construed
as a contract to the contrary in respect of the Bank's right of general lien
and set off. 
IX. DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE
1. Bank reserves the right to withdraw the Select Banking/Wealth
management/Salary/Private banking status if the operation of the account
is not as per the terms and conditions governing the accounts and the
Family ID. 
2. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, ICICI Bank reserves the right to
discontinue/withdraw/revoke the services/benefits/privileges provided
P a g e 57 | 90
under the Programme at any time, for whatsoever reasons, with prior notice
to the Family Members. 
X. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
1. Family members agree and undertake to provide any further information
that ICICI Bank may require from time to time. 
2. Family members understand and agree to the terms and conditions
applicable in relation to the Programme and the accounts held by them.
Family members agree and understand that the terms and conditions may
undergo changes that maybe updated on the website of ICICI Bank. Family
members agree and confirm to review the same from time to time and keep
themselves updated. 
3. Family members understand and agree that upon delinking of an account
from the Family ID, all future services/benefits/privileges shall cease
forthwith and already availed benefits/privileges (under the Programme)
shall be automatically withdrawn to the account so delinked.
XI. MISCELLEANEOUS
1. If deemed appropriate, ICICI Bank may provide the products/service that the
account holders are eligible to avail post revoking and withdrawing the
existing services/benefits/privileges under the Programme, with prior
intimation to the customer. However, no consent of the Family Member is
required for the same. 
2. ICICI Bank at its sole discretion, shall have the right to amend any of the
services/benefits/privileges and charges applicable to it, from time to time,
completely or partially, with or without notice, and introduce any feature
with respect to the Programme. Features in respect of the Family ID may
vary and depend upon Family Member’s continuous compliance to the
criteria of the Programme. 
3. The Bank may provide any other benefit that is/becomes applicable as per
the terms and conditions of the Programme as modified from time to time
at the Bank’s sole discretion. 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE FOR ACCOUNT OPENING AND 
OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN SPECIFIC DISCONTINUED ACCOUNT 
VARIANTS
A. Family 360° banking (If Applicable):
P a g e 58 | 90
For all details on the features, rates, charges, and general information on this
account variant, please refer to the specific product page on the Website. The
Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third party from time to time,
for all transactions, products, offers and services for and in respect of the Family
360° Banking Savings Account variant. 
These terms and conditions pertaining to the Family 360° Banking Program are
in addition and not in derogation to ICICI Bank’s savings bank account Terms
and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the terms and conditions as
set out herein Family 360° Banking shall prevail for all intents and purposes
with respect to the Family 360° Banking. 
All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective
meanings described to it in the Terms and Conditions 
1.Definitions:
In these Terms and Conditions, the following words and phrases have the
meaning stated hereunder unless indicated otherwise: 
"Customer" refers to any person holding an Account or maintaining any
deposit, any other account, any other relationship, whether loan based or
otherwise with ICICI Bank and shall include his heirs, executors, legal
representatives, executors, as applicable to the specific type of Customer. In
case of the Customer being a minor shall mean the minor acting through his/her
natural Guardian or by a Guardian appointed by a court of competent
jurisdiction. 
2. Eligibility Criteria:
The Customer understands that by enrolling into the “Program”, the Customer
will be required to maintain threshold relationship values as defined hereunder
and as may be revised from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank at
the end of every calendar quarter. 
The Customer agrees that any revision to the threshold values shall be updated
by revision of these Terms and Conditions and shall be binding and effective
from the date on which the Terms and Conditions are updated. Continuous
usage of the Account shall be deemed to be considered as an acceptance of
any change in the Terms and Conditions. 
The Customers have a choice to maintain a threshold balance in either of the
categories, at least once in last two consecutive quarters to continue to enjoy
the benefits of the Family 360° Banking. 
Family 360° Banking Threshold Relationship Value (TRV)
Customer may adhere to any of the threshold relationship values. To view
detailed threshold relationship values, click her e.
Notes: 
P a g e 59 | 90
• Individual Current Account holders, Proprietor current accounts,
Partnership/LLP, Private Limited/Public Limited, HUF and One Person
Company will be considered for the Current Account balances and fixed
deposits linked to the current account. 
• Savings Account and Current Account balances will be taken as monthly
average balances. Fixed deposits balance will be considered as month
end balance. 
• Family 360° Banking will be available for family banking. All relevant
relationships as captured in the threshold relationship value of such
family held with ICICI Bank will be taken into consideration when
determining the eligibility for the Family 360° Banking.
• The Customer can add immediate family members (up-to 9 members) to
the program. 
• Family members can maintain Threshold Relationship value together as
a family. 
• Customer after availing the Family 360° Banking needs to meet any of
the threshold relationship values set out in these Terms and Conditions
at least once in last two consecutive quarters failing which the Customer
shall be downgraded to a Regular Account variant. 
3. Non-Maintenance of MAB:
Customer shall not be liable to maintain MAB for their Accounts and no charges
for non-maintenance of MAB shall be levied on the Customer provided the
threshold relationship values are adhered to. Customers who do not meet the
said requirement, will be downgraded to a Regular Account variant with prior
intimation. 
Further, in the event, TRV is not met for 2 (two) consecutive quarters, the Bank
shall dissolve the Family ID and the accounts of each member shall be restored
to the base variant status and all the benefits under the Family ID shall be
withdrawn on prior intimation. 
If the Customer is downgraded to a Regular Account variant due to nonadherence to the threshold relationship values defined herein, the MAB
obligations corresponding to such variant in accordance with the Terms and
Conditions shall become applicable to the Customer from the date of such
downgrade and Customer shall be obligated to non-maintenance of MAB
charges to ICICI Bank as prescribed by ICICI Bank and such charges may be
deducted from the Account. 
ICICI Bank shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever for any costs, losses,
damages or expenses, or other consequences, caused by reason of such
migration and/or downgrade. 
D. CAMPUS POWER SAVINGS ACCOUNT (IF APPLICABLE)
P a g e 60 | 90
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this account variant, please refer to the Website (product page)
for more information. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank from time to time, for all
transactions, products and services including but not limited to Campus
Power Savings Account, or ICICI Bank's other products and services and
shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions.
These terms and conditions pertaining to the Campus Power Savings Account
as mentioned in this section of the Terms and Conditions (the “Campus Power
terms”) are in addition and not in derogation to ICICI Bank’s savings bank
account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the terms
and conditions as set out herein for Campus Power Savings Account shall
prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to Campus Power Savings
Account only. 
3. Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in section I of the Terms and Conditions
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings as set herein below
unless the context indicates otherwise with respect to Campus Power
Savings Account: 
i. “Customer” shall mean the student at select premium institutes,
between 17- 35 years of age, holding an Account with ICICI Bank, with
the mode of operation as ‘single’. 
4. Campus Power Account Opening:
The Customer has provided proof of admission to the premium institute i.e.
Student ID card or Admission Letter on College letterhead with a seal and the
signature of an authorized signatory of the Institute during the time of account
opening. In the case that the Customer is 17 years of age, the customer shall
provide declaration agreeing to the following clause: 
“I hereby declare that my continued operation of the account upon attaining
majority can be considered as my acceptance to the terms and conditions
applicable in relation to said account as well as other products and services
availed by me (including but not limited to internet banking, mobile banking
etc). 
All other terms & conditions shall be applicable as per Regular Savings Account.
A. PRIME & PRIME PRO PROGRAM
P a g e 61 | 90
The Customer understands that by enrolling into the ‘Programme’, the
Customer will be required to maintain threshold values as defined under the
programme at least once in three consecutive months. 
The thresholds defined are as follows:
For the Prime Programme:
Relationship Value
1. Savings Accounts, Deposits and Current Account* (Liability
Relationship): ₹5 lakh 
2. Liability Relationship + Assets# + Demat Balances^: ₹10 lakh
3. Home Loan disbursement: ₹25 lakh 
*Only Individual Current Account & Proprietor’s Account
#Disbursement value of Auto Loan, Education Loan, Personal Loan,
Business Loan (Individual 
Current Account Holder/Proprietor), Credit Card
spends (Avg. in FY) ^Equity Balances only 
For the Prime Pro Programme:
Relationship Value
1. Savings Accounts, Deposits and Current Account* (Liability
Relationship): ₹10 lakh 
2. Liability Relationship + Assets# + Demat Balances^: ₹20 lakh 
3. Home Loan Disbursement: ₹50 lakh 
*Only Individual Current Account & Proprietor’s Account
#Disbursement value of Auto Loan, Education Loan, Personal Loan,
Business Loan (Individual Current Account Holder/Proprietor), Credit
Card spends (Avg in FY) 
^Equity Balances only 
There are no other minimum balance commitment criteria across the Savings
Account. 
All asset values are defined based on the disbursement value of the asset. If
the asset disbursed is active in the quarter of evaluation, then the disbursed
value is added to the total relationship value. Credit Card spends are taken as
an average in the given Financial Year. 
P a g e 62 | 90
Only Individual Current Accounts, Proprietor Current Accounts and Fixed
Deposits linked to the Current Accounts will be considered for the Current
Account balance. 
Savings Account and Current Account balances will be considered at a monthly
average balance. A Fixed Deposit will be considered as month-end balance.
The Customer can add immediate family members (up to 5 members including
the Customer) to the Programme. The cumulative value of the savings, eligible
Current Accounts, deposits, asset values and Credit Card average spends
(including Add-on Cards) of all the family members will be considered for the
cumulative threshold value under the Programme. 
Programme Features and Benefits
1. Features refer to any of the facilities, discounts, services or arrangements
offered to the Account Holder(s) as a result of being a part of the
Programme. The Features may be introduced/amended from time-to-time
and may vary as per the Programme type. Features may also vary within
the same Programme, depending on whether the Account Holder(s)
continue/s to satisfy the prevailing criteria for that Programme.
2. The Features are applicable till the time the Account Holder(s) is/are a part
of the Programme. 
3. The Programme benefits are applicable only for Resident Indian Individuals.
4. Taxes as applicable would be charged separately. 
5. The Bank reserves the right to appoint /change the Relationship Manager of
the Customer. 
6. Locker is subject to availability at the Branch 
7. If the threshold criteria required as per the Programme eligibility are not
maintained for three consecutive months, the Bank reserves the right to
withdraw the prevailing Programme Features, without prior intimation. In
case of such withdrawal of the prevailing Programme entitlement, all the
existing Programme Features (e.g. discounts, services etc.) will be
withdrawn and the Bank shall not be responsible/ liable in any manner
whatsoever for any costs, losses, damages, expenses or other
consequences, due to such instance/ migration/downgrade.
8. When the Customer signs up for the Programme, the Customer has a
minimum of 90 days to meet any of the threshold levels defined under the
Programme. For e.g. a customer who is onboarded in the month of August,
will have to meet the Programme threshold criteria by December.
9. If the Customer has not met the Programme threshold criteria for three
consecutive months, the customer will be regraded to the eligible
Programme based on the existing threshold. In case the customer does not
meet the threshold of the Prime Programme, the customer will be regraded
P a g e 63 | 90
from the Programme and the benefits of a Regular Account will be offered
to the Customer. In case the Customer has opted for Family Banking under
the Programme, the benefits of the entire family will be regraded to a
Regular Family Account and the corresponding benefits will be applicable.
10.If the Customer’s Account and/or the Accounts of the family members are
regraded to the Regular variant, the Customer will need to maintain the
average balance threshold under the Regular variant and if the balance is
not maintained, charges as defined under the Schedule of Charges will be
levied on the Customer’s Account. In case of Family Banking relationship,
the charges will be levied only on the Account of the Primary Account
Holder. 
Terms and Conditions for Prime and Prime Pro (if applicable):
Prime and Prime Pro :
For details on the features, rates, charges and general information on this
account variant, please refer to the specific product page on the website. The
Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products, offers and services for and with respect to
the Prime and Prime Pro Savings Account variant (referred as ‘Prime
Programme’ collectively and ‘Prime’ and ‘Prime Pro’ individually wherever the
context requires). The Terms and Conditions pertaining to the Prime
Programme are in addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank Savings
Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the Terms
and Conditions as set out herein for the Prime Programme will prevail for all
intents and purposes with respect to the Prime Programme only.
The Prime Pro Programme is available at select locations only.
All capitalised terms used but not defined herein will have the respective
meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and Conditions. 
1. Definitions:
In these Terms and Conditions, the following words and phrases have the
meaning stated hereunder unless indicated otherwise: 
‘Customer’ refers to any person holding an account or maintaining any
deposit, any other account, any other relationship, whether loan based or
otherwise with ICICI Bank and shall include his/her heirs, executors, legal
representatives, as applicable to the specific type of Customer. In case of the
Customer being a minor, it shall mean the minor acting through his/her natural
guardian or by a guardian appointed by the court of competent jurisdiction.
2. Eligibility Criteria:
The Customer understands that by enrolling for the Programme, he/she will
be required to maintain the threshold values as defined hereunder and as may
be revised from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank, at the end of
every calendar quarter. The Customer agrees that any revision to the
P a g e 64 | 90
threshold values will be updated by revision of these Terms and Conditions
and shall be binding and effective from the date on which the Terms and
Conditions are updated. Continuous usage of the Account will be deemed to
be considered as an acceptance of any change in the Terms and Conditions.
The Customers have a choice to maintain a threshold balance in either of the
categories, at least once in three consecutive months to continue to enjoy the
benefits of the Prime Programme. 
Prime
The Customer may adhere to any of the below threshold values:
• Deposits (Current Account + Savings Account + Fixed Deposit) >=
₹5 lakh 
• Deposits + Loans/Credit Card Spends + Demat balances >= ₹10 lakh
▪ Savings Account and Current Account: Average balances
▪ Fixed Deposits: Month end balances 
▪ Demat Balances: Only equity holdings 
▪ Auto/Personal/Business/Education Loan: Disbursed
amount 
▪ Credit Card spends: Average of 12 months or the period of
holding the Card, whichever is lower 
▪ LAS/LMF: Amount approved for disbursement
• Home Loan = ₹25 lakh 
Prime Pro
The Customer may adhere to any of the below threshold values:
• Deposits (Current Account + Savings Account + Fixed Deposit) >=
₹10 lakh 
• Deposits + Loans/Credit Card outstanding + Demat balances >= ₹20
lakh 
▪ Savings Account and Current Account: Average balances
▪ Fixed Deposits: Month end balances 
▪ Demat Balances: Equity holdings 
▪ Auto/Personal/Business/Education Loan: Disbursed
amount 
▪ Credit Card spends: Average of 12 months or the period of
holding the Card, whichever is lower 
▪ LAS/LMF: Amount approved for disbursement
• Home Loan = ₹50 lakh 
Single initial funding cheque will be collected as follows:
- Prime: ₹50,000 
- Prime Pro: ₹1,00,000 
P a g e 65 | 90
All loan values are considered based on the disbursement value of such loans
and if the disbursed loan is active in the quarter of evaluation, then the
disbursed value will be considered for calculation of the threshold. Credit Card
outstanding will be taken as an average of the given financial year.
Only individual Current Accounts and Proprietor Current Accounts will be
considered for the Current Account balances and Fixed Deposits linked to the
Current Account. 
Deposit balances will be calculated on monthly average balances except for
the Fixed Deposits that will be calculated on a month end balance basis.
The Customer can add immediate family members (up to 5 members) to the
Prime Programme. The cumulative value of the Savings Accounts, eligible
Current Accounts, Deposits, eligible loan disbursement values, Credit Card
average spends (including add on cards) and Demat balances (only equity
balances) of all the family members will be considered for the cumulative
threshold value under the programme. 
The Prime & Prime Pro Programme will be available for family banking. All the
relevant relationships held with ICICI Bank as captured in the threshold
criteria of such family will be taken into consideration when determining the
eligibility for the Prime Programme. 
The Customer after availing the Prime Programme needs to meet any of the
threshold levels set out in these Terms and Conditions at least once in
preceding 3 months, failing which, the Customer will be downgraded to a
lower Prime Programme variant if applicable or to a regular Account variant.
3. Non-maintenance of MAB:
The Customer will not be liable to maintain the MAB for their Accounts and no
charges for nonmaintenance of MAB will be levied provided the
threshold/eligibility criteria is adhered to. The Customers who do not meet the
said requirement, will be downgraded to a lower Prime Programme variant if
applicable or to a regular Account variant with prior intimation. In addition to
such downgrade any other features extended to the Customer by virtue of
being a part of the Prime Programme shall also stand withdrawn.
In case the Customer has opted for family banking under the Prime
Programme, the benefits of the entire family will be migrated to a regular
family Account and the corresponding benefits will be applicable.
If the Customer is downgraded to a regular Account variant due to nonmaintenance of the threshold values defined herein, the MAB obligations
P a g e 66 | 90
corresponding to such variant as per the Terms and Conditions will become
applicable to the Customer from the date of such downgrade, as prescribed
by ICICI Bank and charges for non-maintenance of MAB may be deducted
from the Account. In case of family banking relationship, the charges will be
levied only on the primary account holder. 
ICICI Bank will not be liable in any manner whatsoever for any costs, losses,
damages, expenses or other consequences due to such migration and/or
downgrade. 
B. THE ONE SAVINGS ACCOUNT (IF APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this Account variant, please refer to the Website (product page).
These terms and conditions pertaining to The One Savings Account (The ONE
Account) as mentioned in this section of the Terms and Conditions (The
ONE Account Terms) are in addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank
Savings Bank Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any
inconsistency, the terms and conditions as set out herein for The One Account
shall prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to The One Account only.
All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and Conditions. 
The Customer shall be required to maintain the Monthly Average Balance
(MAB) as per the respective variant, as specified in the service charges & fees,
available in the service and charges section. Nonmaintenance of the required
MAB in the Account in any month attracts non maintenance charges. Click
 her e for details. 
The ONE Account may be opened:
(a) By the Customer in his own name 
(b) Two or more persons in their joint names, however the primary Account
holder should be a resident Indian Male. 
Debit Card:
(a) The ONE Account Terms for ICICI Bank’s The ONE Account Debit
Cardholders apply to and regulate the issuance and usage of ICICI Bank’s
The ONE Account Debit Card. These Terms are in addition to and not in
derogation of the standard terms and conditions of ICICI Bank Debit Cards
(The ONE Account Debit Card Terms). In case of any inconsistency between
these Terms and The ONE Account Debit Card terms, the One Account Debit
Card Terms shall prevail. All capitalized terms used but not defined herein
P a g e 67 | 90
shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and
Conditions 
(b) The ONE Account Debit Card shall be issued at a Nil Annual Fee. However,
fees shall be subject to change, at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank, post
giving one-month prior notice to The ONE Account Card holder as per the
standard terms and conditions of ICICI Bank Debit Cards. For any other fees
and charges applicable on The ONE Account Debit Card, the Cardholder
shall refer to the details in the tariff guide/schedule of charges of the Debit
Card 
(c) The ONE Account Debit Card can be given to all The ONE Account
Customers of The ONE 
Magnum Privilege Account, as defined below (only household) & The ONE
Titanium Privilege Account (for household & salary), as defined below
(d) The ONE Account Debit Card will be issued to only those customers who
are opening a new The ONE Account effective from 
(e) The ONE Debit Card will be deactivated upon closure of The ONE Account
(f) The ONE Account Debit Card will be delivered to the Customer as per their
Savings Account variant within 45 days of Account opening
(g) Offers on Debit Cards are subject to the Savings Account variant opted by
the Customer and are subject to change from time to time at the sole
discretion of ICICI Bank. The Customer shall be responsible for regularly
reviewing the terms and conditions including amendments, as may be
posted on the website. 
C. THE ONE TITANIUM SALARY SAVINGS ACCOUNT
(a) These terms are in addition to and not in derogation of the
Salary Account Terms. (b) Minimum Net Salary credit
requirement for The ONE 
Salary Variant Minimum Net Salary per 
month*
The ONE Titanium Salary Savings 
Account
₹100,000 and above
(c) Minimum Net Salary as per the required norms above, is to be credited for
3 calendar months after the Account opening month. For example, an
Account is opened on. Minimum net salary as per the
norms above is to be credited latest on.
(d) There is no MAB requirement for a Salary Account. However, in case there
are no salary credits for 3 consecutive months, even if other transactions
are being conducted, then ICICI Bank may choose to (with or without notice
to the Customer): 
i. Not treat such a Salary Account as a salary variant; and/or
P a g e 68 | 90
ii. Migrate the Salary Account to a variant other than the Salary
variant held by the Customer and the Customer may/may not be
required to maintain the MAB as applicable from time to time
(Click here for details- https://www.icicibank.com/servic e -
 charges/regula r - saving s - account.pag e) on the revised Account
variant and shall have to comply with the schedule of charges and
the other terms and conditions as applicable to the specific
Account variant. 
The Customer understands that post conversion of the Salary Account to a
non-salary variant (as detailed above)and if ICICI Bank identifies that there
are salary credits received in the Account for 3 consecutive months, ICICI Bank
at its sole discretion has the right with or without prior notice or intimation to
convert the said Account back to a Salary Account variant in line with the
salary credits received and the Customer shall have to comply with the terms
and conditions of the Salary Account as applicable. 
In addition to other Account closure rights of ICICI Bank, if there are no salary 
credits for 3 consecutive months and there are no transactions in the Salary 
Account and the Salary Account is not maintained by the Customer in a 
manner satisfactory to ICICI Bank, ICICI Bank also reserves the right to close 
the Salary Account and terminate the relationship or to freeze all operations 
in the Salary Account.
ICICI Bank may further choose to hot list The ONE Account Debit Card.
(e) ICICI Bank shall have the absolute discretion to amend or supplement any
of the Terms at any time. ICICI Bank may communicate the amended Terms
by hosting the same on the Website or in any other manner as decided by
ICICI Bank. The Customer shall be responsible for regularly reviewing these
Terms including amendments as may be posted on the Website. Such
amended Terms and conditions stipulated by ICICI Bank and/or its affiliates
will henceforth apply to and be binding on the User at the expiry of one
month from the date of notice. 
(f) ICICI Bank may also offer additional benefits in the form of Promotional
Offers to The ONE Account customers. 
D. ADVANTAGE WOMAN SAVINGS ACCOUNT (IF APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this Account variant, please refer to the Website (product page).
P a g e 69 | 90
These terms and conditions regarding the Advantage Woman Savings 
Account (AWSA) as mentioned in this Section of the Terms and Conditions 
(the AWSA Terms) are in addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank 
Savings Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, 
the terms and conditions as set out herein for AWSA shall prevail for all 
intents and purposes with respect to AWSA only. All capitalised terms used 
but not defined herein shall have their respective meanings ascribed to them 
in the Terms and Conditions.
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third party from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
AWSA or ICICI Bank's other products and services shall be legally binding and
be considered as valid transactions. 
Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in section I of the Terms and Conditions,
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings as set below unless
the context indicates otherwise with respect to AWSA: 
‘Customer’ refers to resident Indian Women holding an Account with ICICI
Bank. 
Operating AWSA: 
i. An AWSA Account may be opened:
a. By the Customer in her own name. 
b. Two or more persons in their joint names, however the primary Account
holder should be a resident Indian woman. 
All the AWSA maintained in the name of an individual shall be operated
singly by the individual or the power of attorney holder/mandate holder of
such individual and in the case of joint accounts, by the account holders
jointly or by either of the joint holders or as may be specified by the joint
account holder/s in the opening form or by their power of attorney
holders/mandate holders and accepted by ICICI Bank at its discretion. ii. The
Customer shall be issued a non-personalised payable-at-par chequebook
consisting of 10 leaves along with the iKit. 
Debit Card:
These terms and conditions (‘Woman Debit Card Terms’) for ICICI Bank’s
Women Debit Cardholders (‘Women Cardholder/s’) apply to and regulate the
issuance and usage of ICICI Bank’s Debit Card that is only offered to primary
account holders of ICICI Bank’s Woman Savings Account (‘Woman Debit
Card’). The Woman Debit Card Terms are in addition to and not in derogation
P a g e 70 | 90
of the standard terms and conditions of ICICI Bank Debit Cards (‘Debit Card
Terms’). In case of any inconsistency between the Woman Debit Card Terms
and Debit Card Terms and conditions, the Woman Debit Card Terms shall
prevail. All capitalised terms used but not defined herein shall have the
respective meanings ascribed to them in the Debit Card Terms.
(a) The Woman Debit Card shall be issued an annual fee and which fees shall
be subject to change, at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank, post giving onemonth prior notice to the Woman 
Cardholder. For any other fees and charges applicable to the Woman Debit
Card, the Woman Cardholder shall refer to the details in the Tariff Annexure
of the Debit Card 
(b) ICICI Bank may also offer additional benefits in the form of Promotional
Offer/s to Women Cardholders. This/These Promotional Offers may be
presented to the Women Cardholders from time to time based on additional
terms and conditions that shall be communicated with such Promotional
Offer/s 
(c) The Woman Debit Card can be given to all AWSA customers irrespective of
the product variant they are holding. 
E. ADVANTAGE WOMAN AURA SAVINGS ACCOUNT (IF APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this Account variant, please refer to the Website (product page).
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
Advantage Woman Aura Savings Account (‘AWAS Account’), or ICICI 
Bank's other products and services and shall be legally binding and be
considered as valid transactions. 
These terms and conditions pertaining to the AWAS Account as mentioned in
this Section I of the Terms and Conditions (the ‘AWAS Account Terms’) are in
addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank Savings Bank Account Terms
and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the terms and conditions
as set out herein for AWAS Account shall prevail for all intents and purposes
with respect to Advantage Woman Aura Account only. All capitalized terms
used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to
them in the Terms and Conditions. 
a. Definitions:
P a g e 71 | 90
Irrespective of the definition provided in section 1 of the Terms and Conditions,
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings as set herein below
unless the context indicates otherwise with respect to AWAS Account:
‘Customer’ refers to Resident Indian Working Women holding an Account with
ICICI Bank.
Operating AWAS Account:
a) An AWAS Account may be opened: 
i. By the Customer in her own name. ii. Two or more persons in their joint
names, however the
primary account holder should be a resident Indian woman.
b) All the AWAS Accounts maintained in the name of an individual shall be
operated singly by the individual or the power of attorney holder/mandate
holder of such individual and in the case of joint accounts, by the account
holders jointly or by either of the joint holder/s or as may be specified by
the joint account holder/s in the opening form or by their power of attorney
holders/mandate holders and accepted by ICICI Bank at its discretion.
c) The Customer shall be issued a non personalised payable-at-par
Chequebook consisting of 10 leaves along with the iKit free of charge.
d) The Customer shall be required to maintain the Monthly Average Balance
(MAB) as per the respective variant, as specified in the Tariff of Charges
available in the service and charges section. Non-maintenance of MAB
shall attract penalty as specified on the service and charges page on the
Website. 
e) The salary variant of the AWAS Account shall also be governed by the
Salary Account Terms. Salary credit requirement for AWAS Account for
Salary Account Customers will be as per the Salary Account variant.
f) There is no MAB requirement for Salary Account. However, in case there
are no salary credits for 3 consecutive months, even if other transactions
are being conducted, then ICICI Bank may choose to (with or without notice
to the Customer): 
i. not treat such a Salary Account as a salary variant; and/or
ii. migrate the Salary Account to a variant other than the Salary
variant held by the Customer and the Customer may/may not be
required to maintain the MAB as applicable from time to time
(Click here for details-
 https://www.icicibank.com/servic e charges/regula r - saving s -
 account.pag e) on the revised Account variant and shall have to
comply with the schedule of charges and the other terms and
conditions as applicable to the specific Account variant.
The Customer understands that post conversion of the Salary Account to a
non-salary variant (as detailed above), if ICICI Bank identifies that there are
P a g e 72 | 90
salary credits received in the Account for <3> consecutive months, ICICI Bank
at its sole discretion has the right, with or without prior notice or intimation to
convert the said Account back to a Salary Account variant, in line with the
salary credits received and the Customer shall have to comply with the terms
and conditions of the Salary Account as applicable. 
In addition to other Account closure rights of ICICI Bank, if there are no salary
credits for <3> consecutive months and no transactions in the Salary
Account/the Salary Account is not maintained by the Customer in a manner
satisfactory to ICICI Bank, then ICICI Bank also reserves the right to close the
Salary Account and terminate the relationship or to freeze all operations in
the Salary Account. 
In case the salary is not credited as per the required norms, benefits of AWAS
Account will be withdrawn and the Woman Debit Card, as defined below, will
get hot listed without any further/ prior notice. 
Debit Card:
These terms and conditions (‘Women Aura Debit Card Terms’) for ICICI Bank
Women Debit cardholders (‘Woman Aura Cardholder’) apply to and regulate
the issuance and usage of ICICI Bank’s 
Debit Card (‘Women Aura Debit Card’) that is only offered to primary Account
holders of 
ICICI Bank AWAS Account. The Women Aura Debit Card Terms are in addition
to and not in derogation of the standard terms and conditions of ICICI Bank
Debit Cards. In case of any inconsistency between these Terms and Debit Card
terms and conditions, these Terms shall prevail. All capitalised terms used but
not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the
Debit Card terms and conditions. 
a) The Woman Aura Debit Card shall be issued at a Nil Annual Fee. However,
fees shall be subject to change, at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank, post
giving a one-month prior notice to the Woman Cardholder as per the
standard terms and conditions of ICICI Bank Debit Cards.
For any other fees and charges applicable to the Woman Aura Debit Card,
the Woman Aura Cardholder shall refer to the details in the Tariff Annexure
of Debit Cards. 
b) The Woman Aura Debit Card will be delivered to women customers as per
their Savings Account variant within 45 days of Account opening. AWAS
Account Debit card will be deactivated upon closure of the Account. The
Debit Card Cashback shall be provided on the basis of total spends in the
Account through the Debit Card, subject to the terms and conditions
applicable. 
c) ICICI Bank may also offer additional benefits in the form of Promotional
Offer/s to Woman Cardholder/s. This/These Promotional Offer/s may be
P a g e 73 | 90
presented to the Woman Cardholder from time to time based on additional
terms and conditions which shall be communicated with such Promotional
Offer/s. 
F. SENIORS CLUB SAVINGS ACCOUNT (IF APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this Account variant, please refer to the Website (product page).
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
Seniors Club Savings Account (‘Senior Citizen Account’), or ICICI Bank's other
products and services and shall be legally binding and be considered as valid
transactions. 
These terms and conditions pertaining to the Senior Citizen Account as
mentioned in this Section of the Terms and Conditions (the “Senior Citizen
Account Terms”) are in addition to and not in derogation to ICICI Bank Savings
Bank Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the
terms and conditions as set out herein for Senior Citizen Account shall prevail
for all intents and purposes with respect to Senior Citizen Account only. All
capitalised terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to it in the Terms and Conditions. 
a. The Bank will automatically convert a fully KYC compliant Savings Account
into a Senior Citizen Account on the first/primary Account holder completing
60 years based on the date of birth available/updated in the Bank’s
records 
b. ICICI Bank may also offer additional benefits in the form of Promotional
Offers to Senior Citizen Account Customers. 
G. SILVER SAVINGS ACCOUNT (IF APPLICABLE)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this Account variant, please refer to the Website (product page).
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
Silver Savings Account, or ICICI Bank's other products and services and shall
be legally binding and be considered as valid transactions.
P a g e 74 | 90
These terms and conditions pertaining to the Silver Savings Account as
mentioned in this Section of the Terms and Conditions (the ‘Silver Savings
Terms’) are in addition to and not in derogation of ICICI
Bank Savings Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any 
inconsistency, the terms and conditions as set out herein for Silver Savings 
Account shall prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to Silver 
Savings Account only. All capitalised terms used but not defined herein shall 
have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and Conditions.
a) ICICI Bank shall have the sole and absolute discretion, without assigning
any reasons (unless required by applicable law) and without providing any
notice, to downgrade the status of the Silver Saving Account of the
Customer to any other appropriate status at any time, if the Customer/s
do/does not fulfil the specified criteria and/or minimum MAB/Monthly
Average Balance, as may be applicable as per ICICI Bank Policy and/or any
other criteria which ICICI Bank may deem necessary to maintain this Silver
Saving Account. 
b) Under no circumstances shall ICICI Bank be liable to the Customer/s for
any direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary costs,
losses, damages or expenses, incurred by the Customer/s due to any
change in the status of the Silver Saving Account. 
Accounts having a joint mode of operation shall not be eligible for upgradation
through ICICI Bank Mobile, Internet and Phone Banking services (alternate
channels). 
H. PRIVILEGE BANKING SAVINGS ACCOUNT, GOLD, MAGNUM SAVINGS 
ACCOUNT & TITANIUM SAVINGS ACCOUNT (If applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this account variant, please refer to the website (product page)
for more information. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
Privilege Banking Savings Account, Gold Savings Account & Titanium Savings
Account or ICICI Bank's other products and services, which will constitute of
legally binding and valid transactions. 
These terms and conditions pertaining to the Privilege Banking Savings
Account, Gold Savings Account and Titanium Savings Account as mentioned
in this Section of the terms and conditions are in addition and not in
P a g e 75 | 90
derogation to ICICI Bank’s Savings Bank Account Terms and Conditions. To
the extent of any inconsistency, the terms and conditions as set out herein for
the Privilege Banking Savings Account, Gold Savings Account & Titanium
Savings Account will prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to the
Privilege Banking Savings Account, Gold Savings Account & Titanium Savings
Account only. All capitalised terms used but not defined herein will have their
respective meanings ascribed to it in the Terms and Conditions.
ICICI Bank will have the sole and absolute discretion, without assigning any
reasons unless required by applicable law) and without providing any notice,
to downgrade the status of the Privilege Banking Savings Account, Gold
Savings Account & Titanium Savings Account of the Customer to any other
appropriate Account at any time, if the Customer/s does/do not fulfill the
specified criteria or requirement of maintaining the Total Relationship Value
(TRV) and/or minimum MAB/Monthly Average Balance, as may be applicable
as per ICICI Bank policy and/or any other criteria which ICICI Bank may deem
necessary, for them to maintain any of the Privilege Banking Savings Account,
Gold Savings Account & Titanium Savings Account. 
a) Under no circumstances will ICICI Bank be liable to the Customer/s for any
direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary costs,
losses, damages or expenses, incurred by the Customer/s due to any
change in the status of the Privilege Banking Savings Account, Gold
Savings Account & Titanium Savings Account 
b) Accounts having a joint mode of operation will not be eligible for
upgradation through ICICI 
Bank’s Mobile, Internet and Phone Banking services (alternate modes)
c) By applying through any of the alternate modes, the Customer accepts
that he has read, understood and accepted the Terms and Conditions
applicable to the Privilege Banking Savings Account, Gold Savings
Account & Titanium Savings Account and terms applicable to the specific
alternate modes through which the request has been made.
I. ICICI BANK BIZSAVINGS ACCOUNT Terms and Conditions (If applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information on this account variant, please refer to the website (product page)
for more information. 
The Account Holder(s) hereby agree/s to adhere to and comply with all such
terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from
time to time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect
to the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account banking product, or ICICI Bank's other
P a g e 76 | 90
products and services, which will constitute of legally binding and valid
transactions. 
These terms and conditions pertaining to ICICI Bank BizSavings Account
banking facility apply to and regulate the operation of variants of the ICICI
Bank BizSavings Account, namely Titanium/Gold ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account offered by ICICI Bank to eligible Savings/Current Account holders, as
part of the group family banking proposition. The ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account Terms are in addition and not in derogation to the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account application form terms, conditions and declarations, ICICI
Bank Savings Bank Account Terms and Conditions, ICICI Bank Current
Account terms and conditions, any other applicable
product/variant/feature/service related terms and conditions, schedule of
charges etc., as available on www.icicibank.co m Further, in case of
inconsistency between the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Terms and the
Primary Terms, the terms and conditions as set out herein for the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account will prevail for all intents and purposes, with respect to
the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account only. 
1. ICICI Bank BizSavings Account eligibility
1.1 Entry to the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account is based on the Account
Holder(s) satisfying the prevailing eligibility criteria for the respective
Account variant and acceptance of the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account
Terms by the Account Holder(s) 
1.2 The Account Holder(s) reserves the right to decline/opt out of the upgrade
to the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account through acceptable electronic or
physical means, as prescribed by ICICI Bank 
1.3 On receipt of request from primary members for the creation of the ICICI
Bank BizSavings Account Family ID, the Bank will send a communication
via e-mail and SMS to all the Account 
Holder(s) registered e-mail and mobile numbers being linked in the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account
ID, informing them that if they do not wish to link their account, they can opt
out by calling the Bank’s Customer Care Centre or visiting any ICICI Bank
branch 
1.4 In case any Account Holder/family member wishes to opt out of the ICICI
Bank BizSavings Account linking request, the Bank will not process the
Family ID creation request 
1.5 In the event the primary member chooses to close his/her relationship post
creation of the Family ID with the Bank or ceases to exist/de-link from the
Family ID, the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account ID will stand dissolved, the
benefits under the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account will be cancelled and the
original obligations of all the linked Account Holders/family members will
revert, as per the contracted terms and conditions applicable, as per the
account variant before it was linked to the Family ID.
P a g e 77 | 90
2. ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Terms and Conditions and Features and 
Benefits
1. Features refers to any of the facilities, discounts, services or arrangements
offered to the Account Holder(s) as a result of being a part of the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account Family ID. The features may be introduced/amended
from time-to-time and may vary as per the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account
type. Features may also vary within the same ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account(s), depending on whether the Account Holder(s) continue/s to
satisfy the prevailing criteria for that ICICI Bank BizSavings Account
variant 
2. The features are applicable till the time the Account Holder(s) is/ are a part
of the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID 
3. The features are subject to the prevailing regulatory guidelines for various
customer types (Resident Individuals/ HUF) 
4. Taxes as applicable would be charged separately 
5. ICICI Bank reserves the right to appoint/change the Relationship Manager
of the Account Holder(s) under the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account ID
6. Locker facility is subject to availability at the branch
7. The features may be extended to such Account Holder(s)’s (primary
member, business and/or family relationship(s)) to form an ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account Banking Family ID at the discretion of the Bank and
based on consent (through electronic or physical means)) received from
both the primary member and the prospective linked Account Holder(s)
8. The Account Holder(s) agree that if the QAB as per ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account’s requirement and eligibility are not maintained for a quarter or
three consecutive months (for any other reason, as deemed fit by the
Bank), the Bank reserves the right to withdraw the prevailing ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account features and dissolve/close the Family ID with or
without prior intimation. In case of such withdrawal of the prevailing ICICI
Bank BizSavings Account entitlement, all the features will be
withdrawn/delinked and any Account Holder(s) previous account variant
will be reinstated with the minimum balance (MAB/QAB) requirements, as
applicable. Fees and charges will be applicable as per the standalone
product/account variant/s held by the Account Holder(s). The Bank will not
be responsible/liable in any manner whatsoever for any costs, losses,
damages or expenses or other consequences, caused by reason of such
instance/migration/downgrade 
9. An ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID can be formed with a
minimum of two (one Current Account and one Savings Account) and a
maximum of six accounts with a combination of Current and Savings
Accounts 
P a g e 78 | 90
10. All Savings Account and Current Account variants (except the Small
Account, No Frills Savings Account, Bank@Campus Account, Society
Banking, NRI, Escrow Accounts including RERA and Overdraft) or any
other Savings or Current Account variant, as applicable from time to time,
can be a part of the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account ID under the Titanium
Privilege Family/Gold Privilege Family. The variants may be
modified/deleted/updated, as per ICICI Bank’s discretion
11. Each family will have a primary customer/member ID for the Family ID. A
Young Stars (Minor) Account holder cannot be a primary holder in the
Family ID 
12. The Family Monthly Average Balance (FMAB) or Family Deposit &
Investment Value (FDIV) or 
Family Total Relationship Value (FTRV) will be maintained collectively by all the
Account
Holder(s) linked under the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID or in a
single account of the Account Holder 
13. If any of the Account Holder(s) rejects/opts out of the linking request at the
time of the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account’s creation, then the request for
linking of such accounts under the Family ID would be cancelled
14. An upgrade facility to be available for upgrading an ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account Family ID from a normal/regular to any higher family variant
15. Acceptance of these ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Terms overrides the
acceptance of any other conflicting terms and conditions accepted by
Account Holder(s) in relation to the individual account variant existing with
the Bank 
16. In case a registered e-mail ID or mobile number is linked to multiple
Customer IDs of the Bank, then the consent through such means will be
deemed to have been received for all the Customer IDs linked to those email ID/address(es) or mobile number(s) 
17. The Account Holder(s) agree/s that the primary member would be the first
and primary point of contact for the Bank with relation to the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account 
18. Consent to be part of the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID and
acceptance of the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Terms also includes
consent for a future downgrade to a suitable 
ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID or to a regular status, based on
the Account Holder/Group’s balances 
19. The Account Holder(s) in the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID
hereby agree/s that the Bank may upgrade the ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account to a higher programme with better benefits, depending on the
eligibility and relationship value 
20. The Account Holder(s) further agree/s to inform/communicate to the Bank
a change of the primary member in the event of death/account
P a g e 79 | 90
closure/conversion from Resident to a NonResident status of the primary
member 
21. The Account Holder(s) hereby authorise/s and provide/s consent in favour
of the primary member ID for the addition of any new Account Holder(s) to
the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID, without any specific consent.
Each of the Account Holder(s) hereby agree/s that such decision of the
primary member would be final and binding on us and that the Bank will
not be liable for any claims arising from relying on such instructions from
the Account Holder(s). 
ICICI Bank BizSavings Account modification requests such as:
a) New family member linking – new member and primary member
signature required 
b) Family member delinking – Signature of exiting member (only) required
c) Family ID closure/deletion, upgrade and downgrade of the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account Family ID – Consent/Signature of all family
member(s) required. 
22. Linking your account to the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID does
not grant any access or permit other members of the ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account family ID to view/make any requests/instructions in your/other
linked account/s 
23. The Family ID, including the Karta for HUF Accounts and all Current
Account signatories hereby agree to hold ICICI Bank harmless from and
against any/all liability/ies or any other loss that may occur, if any claims
are raised by an Account Holder(s), their representatives/heirs against the
Bank, pursuant to the ICICI Bank BizSavings Account Family ID creation
and linking of the family members under the ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account Banking Facility 
24. The Bank reserves the right to amend and change/discontinue all or any of
the features/services/fees/charges/eligibility criteria of the ICICI Bank
BizSavings Account. However, any such amendment will be made
effective after prior notification. The Bank may communicate such
amendments by hosting them on the website or in any other manner, as
decided by the Bank. 
J. ICICI Bank Salute Doctors Account (If applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this account variant, please refer to the website for more information.
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products, offers and services for and with respect to
P a g e 80 | 90
the Salute Doctors Account. The Terms and Conditions as mentioned in this
section are in addition to and not in derogation of the Terms and Conditions. To
the extent of any inconsistency between the Salute Doctors Account Terms and
the Terms and Conditions, the Salute Doctors Account Terms will prevail.
1. Definitions:
i. ‘Customer’ means a resident Indian doctor holding a Salute Doctors Account
with ICICI Bank. 
1. Salute Doctors Account may be opened: I. 
By the Customer in his/her own name. 
II. By two or more persons in their joint names; however, the primary account
holder shall be a resident Indian doctor. 
2. Operating Salute Doctors Account
a) ICICI Bank will have the sole and absolute discretion, without assigning any
reasons (unless required by applicable law) and without providing any notice
to downgrade the status of the Salute Doctors Savings Account of the
Customer to any other appropriate Account at any time, if the Customer does
not fulfil the specified criteria and/or minimum Monthly Average Balance (MAB),
as may be applicable as per ICICI Bank policies and/or any other criteria which
ICICI Bank may deem necessary for them to maintain this Salute Doctors
Savings Account. 
b) Under no circumstances will ICICI Bank be liable to the Customer/s for any
direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary costs, losses,
damages or expenses, incurred by the Customer/s due to any change in the
status of the Salute Doctors Account. 
c) If the Customer opts for any family banking variant, the Terms & Conditions
of the Family Banking, Savings Family Banking & ICICI Bank BizSavings
Account will be applicable. The Customer understands and agrees that Salute
Doctors Accounts having a joint mode of operation will not be eligible for
upgradation through digital modes like Internet Banking and ICICI Bank’s
mobile banking application. 
d) The offers on Debit Cards associated with the Salute Doctors Account are
subject to change from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank. The
customer will be responsible for regularly reviewing the Terms and Conditions
including amendments thereto as may be posted on the website.
K. Bank@Campus (if applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this account variant, please refer to the website (product page) for more
information. 
P a g e 81 | 90
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
Bank@Campus Account or ICICI Bank's other products and services, which will
constitute legally binding and valid transactions. 
The Terms and Conditions pertaining to Bank@Campus (Bank@Campus
Terms) as mentioned in this section of the Terms and Conditions are in addition
to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank Savings Account Terms and Conditions.
To the extent of any inconsistency, the Terms and Conditions as set out herein
for Bank@Campus will prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to
Bank@Campus only. All capitalised terms used but not defined herein will have
the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and Conditions.
The applicant desiring to open a Bank@Campus relationship should be a
resident student who has completed 18 years of age at the time of opening the
account. This account variant is available only at select
campuses/institutions/colleges. 
The applicant needs to sign a relationship form and declare that he/she has
agreed to abide by the rules which are in force from time to time.
On the completion of current educational course, the customer shall intimate
ICICI Bank of the same, update his/her latest communication address in the
Account and also communicate his/her intention to continue the Account, if
eligible to do so, at the sole discretion of ICICI Bank. Further, he/she is aware
that in the absence of any such communication about the completion of his/her
current educational course and/or completion of 5 years from date of account
activation and/or he/she attaining the age of 27 (twenty seven) years,
whichever is earlier, the Bank reserves the right to freeze the account for all
banking transactions. Upon submission of relevant KYC documents, the
account will be removed from freeze status and converted to a regular Savings
Account and the Terms and Conditions applicable to ICICI Bank Savings
Account will apply. 
L. ICICI Bank Salary & Employee Reimbursement Accounts (if applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this account variant, please refer to the website (product page).
The Terms and Conditions pertaining to ICICI Bank Salary and Employee
Reimbursement Accounts (Salary Account and/or ERA) as mentioned in this
section of the Terms and Conditions (the Salary 
Account Terms and/or ERA Terms) are in addition to and not in derogation of
ICICI Bank Savings Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any
inconsistency, the Terms and Conditions as set out herein for
Salary 
P a g e 82 | 90
Account and/or ERA will prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to
Salary Accounts and ERA only. All capitalised terms used but not defined herein
will have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and
Conditions. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all the transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
Salary Account and/or ERA or ICICI Bank's other products and services, which
will constitute legally binding and valid transactions. 
The Salary Account and/or ERA Terms are applicable for operating a Salary
Account. 
Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in section I of the Terms and Conditions,
the following words and phrases will have the meanings as set herein unless
the context indicates otherwise with respect to Salary Accounts and/or ERA:
The ‘Customer’ for the purpose of the Salary Account and/or ERA will mean the
individual employed with the entity (the Employer) and who has been offered
a Salary Account Scheme (the Scheme) by ICICI Bank and the Scheme has been
duly accepted by the Employer. 
Other Terms and Conditions
The Customer represents that he/she has read and understood the Terms and
Conditions under which the Scheme is offered to the corporate and agrees to
be bound by the terms of the Scheme for operating the Salary Account. The
Customer/primary account holder, in employment with the Employer agrees
that the Employer has full right to reverse any instruction/s given by them to
credit the Customer’s Account for any amount and the Customers and joint
account holders (if any), will not dispute or hold the Bank responsible for any
such debits in the Account. For this purpose, the entity/organisation from which
the last salary credit has been received will be considered as the Employer.
If the employment of the Customer with the Employer ceases, the Customer
shall immediately notify ICICI Bank regarding such termination of employment.
On termination of the employment, ICICI Bank reserves the right to close the
Salary Account or to treat the Salary Account as an Account wherein the
customer will cease to enjoy any/all benefits under the Salary Account Scheme,
provided the Customer deposits all the documents as required by ICICI Bank.
Under such circumstances, these Terms will cease to apply to such Account
and it will be governed by the Terms and Conditions. 
In case of change in Employer, the Customer shall immediately notify ICICI Bank
regarding the change in employment status and authorise ICICI Bank to change
P a g e 83 | 90
the Employer details based on such information being received from the
Customer or his/her current employer or otherwise. 
In case of change in employment status, the benefits applicable to the
Salary/Reimbursement Account will be modified. The joint account holders
agree to these terms and will not dispute the same due to change in the
employer of the primary account holder. 
There is no MAB requirement for Salary Account. However, in case there are 
no salary credits for 3 consecutive months, even if other transactions are 
being conducted, then ICICI Bank may choose to (with or without notice to the
Customer) not treat such Salary Account as a Salary Account type and/or 
migrate the Salary Account to a type other than Salary Account and the 
Customer may/may not be required to maintain the MAB as 
applicable from time to time. Visit
 https://www.icicibank.com/servic echarges/regula r - saving s - account.pag e
for more details. The Customer will have to comply with the 
schedule of charges and other Terms and Conditions as applicable to the 
specific Account type.
The Customer understands that post conversion of the Salary Account to a
non-salary type account (as detailed above) and if ICICI Bank identifies that
there are salary credits received in the Account for 3 consecutive months, ICICI
Bank at its sole discretion has the right (with or without prior notice or
intimation) to convert the said Account back to a Salary Account variant in line
with the salary credits received and the Customer will have to comply with the
Terms and Conditions of the Salary Account as applicable.
In addition to other Account closure rights of ICICI Bank, if there are no salary
credits for 3 consecutive months and there are no transactions in the Salary
Account or the Salary Account is not maintained by the Customer in a manner
satisfactory to ICICI Bank, the Bank also reserves the right to close the Salary
Account and terminate the relationship or freeze all operations in the Salary
Account. 
The Customer authorises the Bank to transfer his/her account from one branch
to another as per the request received from the Customer’s employer.
Any modification in the Salary Account with respect to addition/deletion of
name, address modification will be applicable to the Employee Reimbursement
Account as well. 
In case of a joint account, both the applicant and joint applicants are singly and
jointly liable for Overdraft if any, even if the application cum Demand
Promissory Note is signed by the applicant alone. 
For opening and operating the Employee Reimbursement Account (ERA), the
applicable Employee Reimbursement Account Terms (ERA Terms) shall be read
P a g e 84 | 90
in addition to the other Terms and Conditions applicable to ICICI Bank products
and services including but not limited to the Savings Account, Salary Account,
Current Account etc. (Primary Terms and Conditions). Wherever there is a
conflict between these ERA Terms and the Primary Terms and Conditions,
these ERA Terms will prevail. All capitalised terms not defined herein will have
the meanings as ascribed to them in the Primary Terms and Conditions.
The ‘Customer’ for the purpose of the Salary Account and/or ERA shall mean
the individual employed with the entity (the Employer) who has been offered a
Salary Account Scheme (the Scheme) by ICICI Bank and the Scheme has been
duly accepted by the Employer. 
The Customer declares, understands, confirms and agrees that:
All the particulars and information given in the ERA application form (and all
documents referred or provided therewith) are true, correct, complete and up
to date in all respects and he/she has not withheld any information.
The Customer has read and fully understood the contents of the schedule of
charges provided in the tariff guide as set forth on the website.
The mode of operation and nomination of the ERA will be the same as specified
at the time of opening the Salary Account. On successful opening of the ERA,
the Salary Account Debit Card will be linked to the ERA.
The Customer will not be entitled to receive any deliverables including but not
limited to chequebook facility, additional Debit Card etc. for the ERA.
ICICI Bank reserves the right to reject the Customer’s application for the ERA
without providing any reason. 
It is the responsibility of the Customer to inform ICICI Bank immediately on
termination of the Customer’s employment with the Employer as mentioned in
the application form. The Customer will cease to enjoy any or all benefits under
the ERA. In the event ICICI Bank receives intimation about the termination from
any other source, ICICI Bank reserves the right to close/freeze the ERA with or
without any further notice. ICICI Bank further reserves the right to close any
ERA opened in relation to the Salary Account, with or without any notice, if
there are no credits in the Salary Account for 3 consecutive months or for any
other regulatory reason or otherwise. Further the Customer hereby authorises
ICICI Bank to change the Employer details based on such information being
received from the Customer or his/her current employer or otherwise.
The Customer is only permitted to open a single ERA with ICICI Bank. The
Customer affirms that he/ she does not hold any ERA with ICICI Bank at the
time of filling this application form. Further, the Customer is aware that such
ERA can be opened at any ICICI Bank Branch irrespective of the Branch where
the Salary Account is maintained. 
P a g e 85 | 90
Any modification in the Salary Account with respect to addition or deletion of
name and address will be applicable to the ERA. 
ICICI Bank is authorised to issue a consolidated certificate for Tax Deducted at
Source, if applicable, on the interest paid or credited during the financial year
in accordance with prevailing Income Tax Laws unless otherwise requested by
him/her through prior intimation. 
Tax will be deducted at source as per the prevailing Income Tax Laws subject
to a certificate from Indian Tax authorities for nil/concessional rate of tax
deduction. The Customer also understands and agrees that the tax implications
including documentation requirement are subject to change from time to time.
Cash deposits are prohibited in the ERA. 
In case the Employer instructs ICICI Bank to reverse any deposit in the ERA
within 3 working days from the date of such deposit, ICICI Bank will act on such
instruction/s and the Customer will not dispute or hold the Bank responsible for
any such debits in the ERA. For this purpose, the entity/organisation from which
the last salary credit has been received will be considered as the Employer.
ICICI Bank will however not be liable in any manner whatsoever for having
acted upon the above-mentioned instruction/s received from the Employer.
The Customer authorises the Bank to transfer the ERA from one branch to
another as per the request received from the Employer. 
M. ICICI Bank Asset Linked Savings Account (ALSA) (if applicable)
For all details on the eligibility, features, rates, charges and general information
on this account variant, please refer to the website (product page).
The Terms and Conditions pertaining to ICICI Bank Asset Linked Savings
Account (ALSA Account) as mentioned in this section of the Terms and
Conditions (ALSA Terms) are in addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank
Savings Account Terms and Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency, the
Terms and Conditions as set out herein for ALSA will prevail for all intents and
purposes with respect to ALSA Account only. All capitalised terms used but not
defined herein will have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Terms
and Conditions. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third parties from time to
time, for all transactions, products and services for and with respect to the
ALSA Account or ICICI Bank's other products and services, which will constitute
legally binding and valid transactions. All capitalised terms used herein but not
defined will have the same meanings ascribed to them under Savings Account
Terms and Conditions. 
P a g e 86 | 90
Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in section I of the Terms and Conditions,
the following words and phrases will have the meanings as set herein unless
the context indicates otherwise with respect to ALSA: 
‘ALSA Account’ will mean an ICICI Bank Savings Account through which at
least one Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) is paid (either by giving a standing
instruction mandate or through post-dated cheque) towards repayment of
ICICI Bank loan/facility amount and/or in which a minimum Monthly Average
Balance (MAB) of ₹10,000 (₹5,000 in selected cities*) is maintained.
‘Standing Instruction’ will mean the instruction/s in the manner specified by
ICICI Bank from time to time, issued by the Customer to debit the amount equal
to EMI from his/her ALSA Account towards the repayment of ICICI Bank’s
loan/facility amount on a specified date of a month/quarter.
‘Pre-signed cheques’ will mean post-dated cheques signed and furnished by
the Customers towards the repayment of ICICI Bank’s loan/facility amount.
‘ALSA Account holder’ will mean a Customer who holds an ALSA Account with
ICICI Bank. 
Terms:
The ALSA Account holder will not be required to maintain a minimum MAB in
the ALSA Account if the EMI for repayment of ICICI Bank’s loan/facility amount
is received in the month, either by way of standing instructions or by rendering
of post-dated cheques through the ALSA Account. 
Any EMI payment towards ICICI Bank’s loan/facility by cash will not be eligible
for zero minimum balance facility in the ALSA Account. 
In the event the ALSA Account holder chooses not to repay ICICI Bank’s
facility/loan amount through his/her ALSA Account by either providing standing
instructions or rendering post-dated cheques, the ALSA Account holder will be
required to maintain a minimum balance in ALSA Account as specified below.
The ALSA Account holder will be required to maintain a minimum MAB
requirement of ₹10,000 (₹5,000 in selected cities*) for the ALSA Account.
If the above MAB requirement is not maintained the ALSA Account holder will
be required to pay the MAB charges as may be applicable during the period of
the quarter and as may be specified by ICICI Bank from time to time.
The above changes are applicable with effect from Jul 01, 2008.
P a g e 87 | 90
N. No Frills Account (If applicable - has been discontinued since Nov 26, 
2012)
Except to the extent as specified in the Terms and Conditions contained herein,
the Terms & Conditions applicable to the Savings Account shall apply to the No
Frills Account. To the extent of any inconsistency, the Terms and Conditions as
set out herein shall prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to the No
Frills Account. All the Terms and Conditions applicable to the Savings Accounts
for the establishment of a relationship and the opening and operating of the
Savings Accounts are applicable to this account. 
For specific charges and restrictions on this account, please refer to the Tariff
Sheet. 
i. The No Frills Account is available only for Resident Indians above the
age of 18 years. The account is not available for individuals in the
capacity of Hindu Undivided Family (‘HUF’)- Kartas.
ii. It is not available for NRIs. 
O. Foreign National Resident (FNR) Account (If applicable):
For details regarding the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information about this account variant, refer to the ICICI Bank Website.
These Terms and Conditions pertaining to the FNR Account as mentioned in
this section of the Terms and Conditions are in addition to and not in derogation
of the Terms and Conditions for ICICI Bank Savings Account. To the extent of
any inconsistency between these Terms and Conditions and the Terms and
Conditions for Savings Account, these FNR Account Terms and Conditions shall
prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to the FNR Account only.
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions, as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third party from time to time
for all transactions, products and services for and in respect of the FNR Account
or ICICI Bank's other products and services. 
Foreign nationals employed in India and holding valid visas are eligible to
maintain Foreign National Resident Accounts with ICICI Bank as per the RBI
regulations. 
i. The Account can be opened by foreign nationals residing in India for
more than 182 days and holding a valid Visa for taking up employment
or for carrying on a business or vocation in India.
ii. The FNR Account holders have to get their renewed Visa details updated
with the Bank at least 5 working days before the date of expiry of the
Visa. 
iii. If the renewed Visa details are not updated, the account shall be
completely freeze marked and on that basis, no transaction will be
carried out from the date of expiry of the Visa of the foreign national. iv.
P a g e 88 | 90
The foreign national can collect his/her pending dues in India by
requesting the redesignation of the Account to a Non-Resident Ordinary
Account (‘NRO’) on leaving the country after his/ her employment,
subject to regulatory guidelines issued by the RBI and the applicable
Terms and Conditions with respect to NRO Accounts as detailed by the
Bank. PAN Cards will be required for the accounts with taxable incomes.
v. The freeze can be removed by submitting the renewed Visa details at any
ICICI Bank Branch. Note: For each Account variant/ product features and
benefits, including the applicable charges, fees, MAB requirements, default
charges for non-maintenance of MAB and other applicable Terms and
Conditions, please visit the ICICI Bank Website. 
P. ICICI Bank Freedom Savings Accounts (Discontinued since Apr 01, 2010)
(If applicable)
For details regarding the eligibility, features, rates and charges and general
information about this account variant, refer to the ICICI Bank Website.
These Terms and Conditions pertaining to the ICICI Bank Freedom Savings
Account as mentioned in this Section of the Terms and Conditions are in
addition to and not in derogation of ICICI Bank Savings Account Terms and
Conditions. To the extent of any inconsistency between these Terms and
Conditions and the Terms and Conditions for Savings Account, these Freedom
Savings Account Terms and 
Conditions shall prevail for all intents and purposes with respect to the
Freedom Savings Account only. All capitalised terms used but not defined
herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Terms and
Conditions. 
The Customer hereby agrees to adhere to and comply with all such Terms and
Conditions as may be prescribed by ICICI Bank or third party from time to time,
for all transactions, products and services for and in respect of the Freedom
Savings Account or ICICI Bank's other products and services.
1. Definitions:
Irrespective of the definition provided in Section I of the Terms and Conditions,
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings as set herein below
unless the context indicates otherwise with respect to the Freedom Savings
Account: 
a) ‘Freedom Savings Account’ shall mean an Account, in which a minimum
MAB of ₹ 10000 is maintained and which can be operated at Non-ICICI
Bank ATMs without levy of any added charge for such operation at NonICICI Bank ATMs. 
P a g e 89 | 90
b) ‘Non-ICICI Bank ATMs’ shall mean such ATMs other than ICICI Bank ATMs
that are affiliated with Mastercard and Visa. 
c) ‘Freedom Savings Account Holder’ shall mean such a Customer who holds
a Freedom Savings Account. 
2. Registration:
The Customer shall be required to submit registration form at any ICICI Bank
Branch or register by giving instructions to ICICI Bank Customer Care or
submit a written request at the time of submission of AOF. On such successful
registration, the Customer shall be deemed to be a Freedom Savings Account
Holder. 
3. Terms:
A) Freedom Savings Account Holder shall be entitled to carry out all
permissible operations with respect to the Freedom Savings Account at NonICICI Bank ATMs without payment of any charges/ fees for the same, provided
the MAB requirement for a Freedom Savings Account is maintained at all
times. 
In the event, the above mentioned MAB requirement is not maintained, the
Freedom Savings Account Holder shall be obliged to pay the required charges
as may be applicable for transacting at Non-ICICI Bank ATMs during the period
of the quarter. 
• For Terms & Conditions governing the use of the Mobile Banking service
provided by ICICI Bank, clic k her e.
• For Terms & Conditions governing the Internet Banking service provided by
ICICI Bank, click her e.
• For Terms and Conditions regarding the issuance and use of ICICI Bank ATM
Cards, click her e.
• For Terms and Conditions regarding the issuance and use of ICICI Bank
Debit Cards, click her e. Terms and Conditions for ICICI Bank Debit Cards -
With effect from Jul 31, 2020 a standard Debit Card* and account opening
kit will be issued to the Customer. Customers can choose their desired
transaction limits by using the ‘Set your own Transaction limit’ feature
through iMobile Pay, Internet Banking or by calling Customer Care. For
details, click her e.
*Excluding wealth customers and defence customers. 
SAVINGS FAMILY BANKING (for discontinued variants)
Discontinued Services (with effect from 1st August 2025)
P a g e 90 | 90
• Family Debit Card 
The Family debit card issued to the primary member of Family 360°
Banking family (both Savings & Salary) will be applicable. New Family
Debit card will not be issued.