Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
This is an Internal document.
Notice to the Reader
This policy document is the property of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited and is for use 
only by Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited or any of its group companies. It must not be 
copied, disclosed, circulated or referred to in correspondence with external parties 
or discussed with any other third party other than for any regulatory requirements 
without prior written consent from Head of Compliance or any other nominated 
personnel authorized by the Bank for this purpose.
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
1
Contents
1 Policy for grievance redressal 1
1.1 Introduction 1
1.2 Objective 1
1.3 Internal Machinery to handle Customer complaints/ grievances 3
1.4 Mandatory display requirements 8
1.5 Resolution of Grievances 8
1.6 System to capture complaints: 9
1.7 Sensitizing operating staff on handling complaints 10
1.8 Grievance Handling Machinery for services provided by Outsourced Agencies 10
1.9 Analysis and Disclosure of Complaints 10
1.10 Record Keeping 11
1.11 Customer Feedback 11
1.12 Process improvements to enhance customer experience: 11
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
1
1 Policy for grievance redressal
1.1 Introduction
In the present scenario of competitive Banking, excellence in Customer Experience is the 
most important tool for sustained Business growth. As a service Organization, Customer 
centricity is our prime focus. We believe that providing prompt and efficient service is 
essential to retain existing customer. The bank follows a holistic approach towards setting 
up service standards and continuously improvising customer experience based on market 
practice as well as customer feedback across multiple channels.
The bank ensures to provide multiple modes to customers to provide feedback on the 
services of the Bank as well as lodge their grievances. The bank aims to ensure quick and 
effective handling of customer grievance, as well as prompt corrective & preventive action 
(including correction of the process, wherever required) in order to avoid recurrence of 
grievances.
To make the Bank’s Redressal mechanism more meaningful and effective, a structured 
system has been built. The system would ensure that the redressal sought is just and fair and 
is within the given framework of rules and regulation. All employees must be aware of the 
grievance redressal process. 
In order to meet the above objective, the bank has outlined a framework for redressal of 
customer grievances and documented it in the form of a policy for the reference of customer 
touchpoints. The bank shall ensure that the Customer Grievance Redressal Policy is also 
available in public domain (on its website and at branches).
1.2 Objective
The objective of the policy is to ensure that:
1. All customers are always treated fairly 
2. Complaints raised by customers are dealt with empathy and on time
3. Customers are fully informed of avenues to escalate their complaints/ grievances 
within the Organization and their rights to alternate remedies, if they are not fully 
satisfied with the response of the Bank to their complaints.
4. The Bank employees work in good faith and without prejudice to the interest of the 
customer 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
2
Guiding Principles of Grievance redressal at Bank
 Being Transparent: The customer shall be provided with the details of channels 
.The turnaround time for issues to be redressed shall be communicated 
transparently through the various service channels.
 Ease of access: A suitable mechanism must therefore exist for receiving and 
redressing customer grievances courteously promptly and satisfactorily. 
 Ease of Escalation: If the customer is not satisfied with the resolution, clear 
information of the escalation matrix to be given on Bank’s website along with 
Turnaround time so that he/she can approach and register a grievance for early 
resolution. Additionally, in case the complaint is rejected, email communication to 
customer shall clearly inform of the escalation matrix. 
 Regularly seek feedback: Bank will closely listen to the voice of the customer to 
make appropriate changes to the product and process to suit the needs of the 
customer 
 Continuous improvement Culture: The bank through appropriate forums will get 
to the root cause of issues and implement solutions to improve customer 
experience on an ongoing basis.
Definition of Complaint, Request:
KMBL defines a complaint for an issue reported by customer expressing dissatisfaction 
& services not being delivered about a promised product, service(s) or any other 
grievance(s). Complaints could be on account of breach in committed turnaround time, 
unfulfilled promise or non-fulfilment of a request placed with the bank.
Request refers to any fulfilment action that the customer asks on account of his 
relationship with the bank. Requests will have specific turnaround time that will be 
communicated to the customer.
The customer is having full right to register his complaint if he is not satisfied with the 
services provided by the bank. He can give his complaint in writing, orally or over 
telephone. If customer’s complaint is not resolved within given time or if he is not 
satisfied with the solution provided by the bank, he can approach Banking Ombudsman 
with his complaint or other legal avenues available for grievance redressal. 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
3
Applicability and coverage of the Policy:
 The policy is applicable to all branches and all personnel working in branches & 
Offices. 
 Applicable to Central Office departments and its personnel involved in 
functioning of overseas and domestic operations of the Bank. 
 Customers from rural areas.
 Third party product distributed/ referred by the Bank. 
 Any schemes introduced by the Government and serviced by the Bank. 
 Applicable to Business Correspondents and Outsourced employees.
 Customers availing Small Saving Schemes of Government of India.
 Customers opening account under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana.
 Applicable to Agency Bank Business & any other Government related Businesses
 All products sold by the bank from time to time. 
1.3 Internal Machinery to handle Customer complaints/ grievances
Customers who wish to provide feedback or send in their complaint may use the following 
channels available with the bank
 Level 1
1. Customer Experience Centre:
Customers can contact our Phone Banking officers over the phone for resolution of 
issues. at (24x7 Help line: 1860 266 2666)
2. Net Banking / Web form:
Customers can register their concern by logging in through the net banking section 
available on the website www.kotak.com. Alternatively, they can also use the web form 
in our website www.kotak.com
3. Branch:
Customer can interact with the branch officials for resolution of their issues or register 
their grievances digitally at branches and seek complaint reference no. over the 
counter. The details of branches to be available in the website www.kotak.com. 
 
4. Write to us:
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. P.O.Box: 16344, Mumbai – 400013. 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
4
 
Level 2
 Nodal Officer 
The Bank has appointed Nodal officers to handle complaints escalated to them. The 
details of the Nodal officers are available on the Bank website. 
1. Write to Nodal Officer 
Nodal Officer.
Address: Kotak Infiniti, 4th Floor , Zone 4
Bldg No.21, Infinity Park,
Off Western express Highway,
General AK Vaidya Marg,
Malad ( E) , Mumbai – 400097
Email id: nodalofficer@kotak.com
2. Online Web form:
Online Level 2 web form: www.kotak.com
3. Call Nodal Officer
Mon to Fri (10.00 am to 6.00 pm) 
Telephone No: As updated in the banks website 
 Nodal office at HO will acknowledge the customer issue and record in the 
system. 
 Bank has a defined turnaround time of 2 working days.
 If the customer is not satisfied with the response offered then customer may 
choose to refer the matter to Level 3 (Principal Nodal officer).
Level 3
PNO
In case, the customer is not satisfied with the response received from Level 1 and 2, then 
he/she can write to the Principal Nodal Officer, Customers can choose to call at the PNO 
desk number as available on the Bank’s website
Customer can raise the concern with Principal Nodal Officer using the below channels:
1. Write to: Principal Nodal Officer 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
5
Principal Nodal Officer
Address: Kotak Infiniti, 4th Floor , Zone 4
Bldg No.21, Infinity Park,
Off Western express Highway,
General AK Vaidya Marg,
Malad ( E) , Mumbai – 400097
Email id: pno@kotak.com
2. Online Web form:
Online Level 3 web form: www.kotak.com
3. Call Principal Nodal Officer 
Mon to Fri (10.00 am to 6.00 pm) 
Telephone No: As updated in the banks website 
 Principal Nodal officer office will acknowledge the customer issue and record in 
the System. 
 If the grievance is not resolved within a month at the bank level then the 
customer may choose to refer the matter to Banking Ombudsman. The details 
of the same is available in our website www.kotak.com in the Grievance 
Redressal Section.
Appointment of Internal Ombudsman
Profile of the Internal Ombudsman: As per the Internal Ombudsman guidelines issued on 29 
Dec 23, The Internal Ombudsman shall either be a retired or serving officer, in the rank 
equivalent to a General Manager of another bank / Financial Sector Regulatory Body / NBSP 
/ NBFC / CIC, having necessary skills and experience of minimum seven years. 
Present incumbents will continue till their contract period. All new hires will be as per the IO 
guidelines issued on 29 Dec 23. And their compensation will be duly approved and signedoff by the Customer service committee of the Bank board. 
In line with RBI guidelines , the Bank has incorporated the role of an Internal Ombudsman, 
who is an independent authority to review the Grievances raised by customers. The Internal 
Ombudsman will share an independent view and be a part of Bank’s grievance redressal 
mechanism. The decision taken by the Internal Ombudsman will be binding on the Bank.
If the customer is not satisfied with the response or have not received a response from the 
Bank within a month, then he/she can file a complaint with Banking Ombudsman. The details 
of the same is updated on the Bank’s website.
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
6
The Internal Ombudsman shall , on a quarterly basis, analyse the pattern of complaints such 
as product/ category wise, consumer group wise, geographical location wise and suggest
remedies root cause of complaints of similar / repeat nature and those that require policy 
level changes in the regulated entity.
The Internal ombudsman shall furnish periodic reports on his/her activities to the Committee 
of the Board handling customer service and protection, preferably at quarterly intervals , but 
not less than half yearly intervals (latest RBI Master Direction, Dec.2023)
The Internal Ombudsman shall be designated as an ex-officio member or permanent invitee 
to the meetings of the committee of the Board of regulated entity handling customer service 
and protection.
Number of Internal Ombudsman appointed by the bank will be a function of the total 
complaints being received. 
The internal Ombudsman shall be provided adequate infrastructure and personnel to carry 
out the roles and responsibilities appropriately & efficiently. 
1.3.1 Standing committee on Customer service
The Standing committee on Customer Service may be chaired by the CMD, Jt MD or Dy MD
or ED and include non-officials as its members to enable an independent feedback on the 
quality of customer service rendered by the bank. The committee is responsible for the 
following functions:
 Evaluate feed-back on quality of Customer service received from various 
quarters. The committee would also review comments/feed-back /complaints on 
implementation of commitments in the Code of Bank’s Commitments to 
Customers. 
 The Committee is responsible to ensure that all regulatory instructions regarding 
Customer service are followed by the Bank. Towards this, the committee would 
obtain necessary feed-back from regional managers/ functional heads. 
 The committee also considers unresolved complaints/grievances referred to it by 
functional heads responsible for redressal and offers their advice in return. 
 The committee submits a report on its performance to the Customer service 
committee of the board at Quarterly intervals. 
1.3.2 Branch level Customer Service Committee –
Branch Level Customer Service Committees (BLCSC/Parichay) at the branches shall be 
constituted, in order to encourage a formal channel of communication between the 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
7
customers and the Bank. Such committees would also include their customers too. A 
senior citizen customer may preferably be included therein. 
The BLCSC shall meet at least once in a month to study complaints/suggestions, cases of 
delay, difficulties faced/reported by customers/members of the Committee and evolve 
ways and means of improving customer services.
The BLCSC shall also submit quarterly reports giving inputs/suggestions to the Designated 
Team for onward submission to the Standing Committee on Customer Services for their 
examination.
1.3.3 Reserve Bank of India – Banking Ombudsman Scheme:
If the customer’s complaint is not resolved within the given timeline of one month, or if 
he is not satisfied with the resolution provided by the Bank, he can approach Banking 
Ombudsman with his complaint. Details of Banking Ombudsman are already displayed at 
branches and on Bank’s website.
 1.3.4 Customer service committee of the Board
This committee includes experts and representatives of customers (selected on random 
sampling) as invitee to enable the bank to formulate policies and assess the compliance 
there of internally with a view of strengthening the corporate governance structure and 
also to bring about on-going improvements in the quality of Customer Service provided 
by the Banks. This Committee also reviews the functioning of Standing Committee on 
Customer Service. The committee is responsible for the following functions.
 To formulate the deposit policy
 Annual Customer satisfaction survey
 To look at and decide on policy matters pertaining to Customer Service
 To issue guidelines to the Standing committee on matters relating to Customers
 To seek and obtain feedback from the standing committee on areas pertaining to 
Customer Service in terms of trends of complaints, service issues etc
 Review and suggest a way forward on the reports put up by the standing committee 
pertaining to complaint cases of delays
 To have an oversight over the implementation of RBI’s circulars on the Customer 
Service issues
 To look at all awards given by the Integrated ombudsman and to address issues of 
system deficiencies brought out by awards. Also, to look at reasons for awards which 
have remained unimplemented for more than 3 months if any.
 To review the performance of the Internal Ombudsman 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
8
1.3.5 Escalation to Regulator
Reserve Bank of India – Banking Ombudsman Scheme:
If the customer’s complaint is not resolved within the given timeline of one month, or if 
he is not satisfied with the resolution provided by the Bank, he can approach Banking 
Ombudsman with his complaint. Details of Banking Ombudsman are already displayed at 
branches and on Bank’s website.
1.4 Mandatory display requirements 
 It is mandatory for the bank to provide;
 Appropriate arrangement for receiving complaints and suggestions. 
 Prominently display at the branches, the names of the officials who can be 
contacted for redressal of complaints, together with their telephone number, 
complete address and email address, for proper and timely contact by the 
customers and for enhancing the effectiveness of the redressal machinery.
 The name, address and contact number of Nodal Officer(s)
 Contact details of Banking Ombudsman of the area
 Code of bank’s commitments to customers/Fair Practice code.
 Bank will also display on its website the names and other details of the officials at 
Head Office/Zonal Office/Regional Office who can be contacted for redressal of 
complaints including the names of the Nodal Officers/Principal Nodal Officer. 
Contact details, name, complete address, telephone number and email address 
of the Nodal Officer/Principal Nodal Officer be displayed on Bank’s website.
 Bank shall also display on the website, the names and other details of its 
CMD/CEO to enable their customers to approach them in case of need, if 
necessary.
 These details are already made available on the Bank’s website www.kotak.com
1.5 Resolution of Grievances 
Every complaint has a specified turnaround time. Customer, at the time of login of 
complaint, would ordinarily be informed of the same. 
 The Turnaround time (TAT) for the top few complaint types is as below:
Top Complaints TAT in working days
Cash Withdrawal Dispute Other Bank 
ATM 41
Cash W/d Dispute - Kotak ATM 16
CC Non Fraud Settled Txn Dispute 91
Collection Executive Behavior 9
DC Non Fraud Settled Txn Dispute 91
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
9
Toll services not-availed 28
PG-Net Banking txn Dispute 6
Maintenance Related 15
Complaints related to Agency business 
including Direct & Indirect Tax, 
Pension, RBI Bonds or any other 
agency business
72 hours
 1.6 System to capture complaints 
Bank has in place a CRM system to enable efficient and effective tracking and resolution 
of complaints. All complaints from the customers, shall be logged into CRM. With this 
the bank shall not only ensure that all complaints received are recorded or resolved, but 
shall also ensure effective monitoring /escalation mechanism to the senior functionary 
responsible so as to make sure that none of the complaints remain unresolved
Complaints on credit cards received at the Customer Experience Centre (Telephonically 
or through online web form) will be captured at the time of customer connecting with 
KMBL and be referred to the appropriate backend unit for necessary resolution as per 
the committed time lines.
All complaints received by Senior Management at the corporate office or at the 
Chairman / Managing Director’s desks shall be handled by a dedicated team under the 
Grievance Redressal desk. The team will also look in to Complaints received through the 
below mentioned channels on priority:
 Reserve Bank of India complaints received at Corporate Office
 Government of India complaints received at Corporate Office
 Consumer Forum complaints received at Corporate Office
Complaints shall be resolved in a proper and time bound manner with detailed resolution 
to the customer. In case the resolution needs time, an interim response, acknowledging 
the complaint shall be issued. 
Bank will have necessary management information systems to facilitate the top 
management to review the status of complaints received / resolved.
Bank has 3 level structure of complaint handling. Level-1 Branch/Customer Experience
Centre/Online channel/ Social Media, Level-2 Nodal Officer, Level-3 Principal Nodal 
Officer.
The bank recognizes that customer’s expectation/requirement/grievances can be better 
appreciated through personal interaction with customers by bank’s staff. Periodic 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
10
customer meets will give a message to the customers that the bank cares for them and 
values their feedback/suggestions for improvement in customer service. Many of the 
complaints arise on account of lack of awareness among customers about bank services 
and such interactions will help the customers appreciate banking services better. As for 
the bank the feedback from customers would be valuable input for revising its product 
and services to meet customer requirements. Bank would also facilitate for providing 
customer feedback on the bank’s website. 
1.7 Sensitizing operating staff on handling complaints
Staff should be made aware of the complaints handling and properly trained for handling 
complaints. We are dealing with people and hence difference of opinion and areas of 
friction can arise. It would be the responsibility of the Principal Nodal Officer/ Nodal 
Officer to ensure that internal machinery for handling complaints/grievances operates 
smoothly and efficiently at all levels. The PNO/NO should give feedback on training needs 
of staff at various levels to the HR Dept. 
KMBL Staff managing customers to be trained on complaint management and Grievance 
Redressal aspect right from initial induction phase. Bank is confident that with an open 
mind and a smile on their face, we should be able to win customer’s confidence
Periodic reinforcements should be done for effective resolution of issues. Training and 
awareness measures to have the following key objectives:
 Ensure prompt response 
 Provide complete resolution
 Ensure retention and business maximization
 Minimize escalations by getting it right first time
 Overall Customer Satisfaction 
1.8 Grievance Handling Machinery for services provided by Outsourced Agencies
The Grievance Handling Machinery of the Bank, as stated in para above, will also be 
available to deal with issues relating to services provided by Outsourced Agencies. 
1.9 Analysis and Disclosure of Complaints
The Bank places before the Board, a statement of complaints and its analysis along with 
the financial results as recommended by the Committee on Procedures and Performance 
Audit on Public Services (CPPAPS). 
Details of Complaints and Awards passed by the Banking Ombudsman needs to be 
disclosed in the financial statements under Notes to Accounts as per the Master Circular 
– Disclosure in Financial Statements - Notes to Accounts in the prescribed format.
The complaints are analysed:
 To identify customer service areas in which complaints are frequently received
 To identify frequent sources of complaint
Kotak Mahindra Bank Grievance Redressal Policy
11
 To identify system deficiencies
 To initiate appropriate action to make the grievance redressal mechanism more 
effective.
 Review of Branch Level Customer Service Committee Meeting
 Analysis of BO Awards and Appeals to the Appellate Authority
Further, a detailed statement of complaints and its analysis are placed on the website for 
information of the general public at the end of each financial year.
1.10 Record Keeping 
The complaint records are to be maintained for a minimum period of ten years from 
the date of resolution. The Complaint records to be easily traceable and made available 
for future reference as per requirements of various stakeholders. 
1.11 Customer Feedback
The Bank shall have a structured mechanism to gauge customer satisfaction with the 
banks services through periodic customer surveys. In addition to the periodic surveys 
conducted to gauge satisfaction with the transactions, specific surveys shall be 
conducted to obtain customer feedback on Complaints management. Feedback to be 
sought from customers at the various channels of interaction to ensure a robust 
complaint management system.
1.12 Process improvements to enhance customer delight:
The product teams, Service Quality, customer experience, Service channels and other 
business units shall ensure that the information on customer complaints is used for 
necessary process improvement. The objective should be to get to the root cause of the 
issue and resolve it. It should help the bank to improve its policies, processes and lead 
to efficiency in its operations. Number of complaints, Types of Complaints, Products 
emanating more complaints and process emanating more complaints are constantly 
monitored. Thresholds are defined and deviation from the threshold like +ve and –Ve 
are analyzed and findings are shared in relevant forum based on the RCA . RCA forms a 
critical part in complaint reduction and Kotak emphasis is always on reducing the 
complaints.