Policy For Credit Card Issuance and Conduct
Policy For Credit Card Issuance and Conduct - RBL Bank is a guidance framework adopted by the 
bank to enlist guidelines that are relevant for current or future credit card customers to 
understand issuance and conduct of credit cards. The broad framework covers the service 
offerings of credit cards and binding governance mechanism in place. This policy is in 
consonance with RBI’s circular (Master Direction – Credit Card and Debit Card – Issuance and 
Conduct Directions, 2022) and is subject to change in accordance with developments in 
regulatory directions or internal policies. This framework will be reviewed yearly to encapsulate 
any change in internal policies, processes, or external factors.
 
Page 2 of 16
Index
• Section 1: Type of Credit Card Programs
• Section 2: Our Acquisition Channels
• Section 3: Our Credit Policy and Checks
• Section 4: Our KYC (Know your Customer) Policy
• Section 5: Capturing Customer Consent
• Section 6: Co-branding Arrangement and Roles
• Section 7: Post-Onboarding customer engagement/Cross-Sell
• Section 8: Fees and Charges
• Section 9: Collections Policy
• Section 10: Services and Grievance Redressal
• Section 11: Reporting of Information to Credit Information Companies
• Section 12: Compliance with other Instructions
 
Page 3 of 16
Section 1: Type of Credit Card Programs
Credit Card product provides revolving credit facility to the cardmember and can be used as a 
payment mechanism for settling amount due against purchase of goods and / or services and 
can also be used for cash advances. Primary engagements for bank’s credit cards are bifurcated 
into 2 main programs: 
1. Retail (including Co-brand) Program
2. Corporate or Commercial or Business (including co-brand) Program
3. Secured Credit Cards: Fixed Deposit (FD) based Credit Card Program
1. Retail Program 
Bank provides a host of credit cards to individual borrowers with diversity in offerings targeted 
to various customer segments. Bank has bouquet of solely bank owned proprietary cards for 
affluent, mass and millennial segments along with the co-brand cards in partnership with 
merchants, technology players or distribution franchise to service the customers with solutions 
to their varied financial needs. In addition, bank may also provide add-on cards to existing 
primary cardmembers as per their request. A co-brand credit card is jointly sponsored by the 
bank and the merchant where co-brand partner does the origination of customers, and Bank 
manages the credit assessment, acceptance, line/account management and client service etc. 
Below is the Bank’s website link where all Cards that are currently being sourced (may change 
with time) under retail program are listed:
https://www.rbl.bank.in/personal-banking/cards/credit-cards/category
2. Corporate/Commercial Program
RBL Bank offers a range of commercial/corporate cards designed to support expense 
management in SME, mid-sized and large corporates. The products are offered basis various 
programs under company payment liability. Additionally, these cards could either be charge 
cards (no revolve), or cards which allow for limited revolve. The entity needs to make the 
payment as per the product setup. The card member is not allowed to split the transactions 
done using this card into an EMI.
Bank also has a co-branded commercial card with RazorpayX, designed to give the bank access 
to the merchant’s customer base.
3. Secured Credit Cards/Fixed Deposit (FD) based Credit Card Program
Retail Program: The Bank may offer Secured Card (FD backed credit card) to the existing 
customers who are holding fixed deposit account with Bank or agrees to open a new FD with 
the Bank Secured cards are offered with credit limit basis the FD lien value (governed by the 
credit policy). The Bank may offer its Proprietary Credit Card or Co-brand card to the customer 
under the Secured Card program.
 
Page 4 of 16
Corporate/Commercial Program: May be offered against a fixed deposit with certain criteria. 
The terms may be altered by the Bank, however 30 days’ notice shall be given to the 
cardmember. After the notice period of 30 days, the cardmember would be deemed to have 
accepted the terms. 
Section 2: Our Acquisition Channels
Bank utilizes various channels to acquire customers. Either prospects can self-initiate the 
application request through digital or bank’s branch channel or bank will directly reach out 
through below listed means to understand the interest of a prospect and fulfil the application 
for issuance of credit card:
▪ Digital Sourcing – marketing campaigns through SMS, email, web, etc. or customer can selfapply on Bank website.
▪ Branch Sourcing/ Cross-sell to existing bank customers – branch walk-ins; application 
request through MyBank app, ATM, inbound call centers; cross-sell to prequalified base, 
secured card against FD etc. 
▪ Through Storefront channels – identified marketplaces where outsourced employees 
advertise and fulfil credit card applications.
▪ Tele sales Sourcing – fresh tele-calling to the identified eligible base
▪ Direct Sales Team – RBL field representatives reaching out to prospects through market 
sourcing.
▪ Co-brand Partner-led system – Credit card applications initiated through co-brand partners’ 
platforms, including partner websites or integrated application systems.
Credit Cards can be sourced through both digital modes as well as via physical application 
depending on the source of application.
Section 3: Our Credit Policy and Checks
Every customer application goes through all or some of the checks and scorecard-based 
underwriting where the applicants are assessed through analytics driven model.
▪ Scorecard based analytical assessment: At the time of applying, basis application score 
model, which includes but not limited to parameterized criteria and bureau behaviour the 
customer is either approved, declined, or conditionally approved. Only approved and 
conditionally approved applications are passed to the next level assessment. This tool is 
reviewed and enhanced basis the portfolio performances from time to time. 
▪ Credit checks and underwriting: Basis customer segment type (Salaried/Self Employed etc.) 
and bureau history.
▪ Contactability check and transparency in communication: At various stages of the 
application flow journey, contact may be established with the applicant for the purpose of 
 
Page 5 of 16
verification and/or sharing of useful information regarding the applied product and for post 
issuance engagement/account information. 
▪ Credit Limit assignment: Credit limit is assigned to an approved card post assessing a 
customer’s credit profile which is based on factors such as cardmember’s profile, bureau 
history, overall current exposure and past re-payment track records.
Bank is doing income assessment using account aggregator platform for underwriting 
decisions.
Credit Limit Management: Credit limit of the cardmember is revised (Increase or Decrease)
basis the cardmember’s behaviour/performance/repayment track.
Credit limit increase: Credit limit increase is based on a pre-approved offer according to the 
bank's internal policies, or cardmembers who request a limit increase who are not part of a preapproved credit limit offer will need to send Income documents to check the limit increase 
facility. Explicit consent of the cardmember shall be obtained during any subsequent 
enhancement of credit limits.
Commercial/Business cards consider underwriting of the corporate entity while determining 
the eligibility and limit assessment. All programs focus on financial due diligence of the 
corporate and not the individual.
Framework for Card Deactivation, Suspension & Blocking
Card Deactivation:
As per RBI guidelines on ‘Enhancing Security of Card Transactions’, all Credit Cards are issued in 
a deactivated state for security purpose. These cards are enabled for use only at contact-based 
points of usage [ATMs and Point of Sale (PoS) devices] within India. Cardmembers can use 24*7 
Mobile Banking/ Bank’s website/ Helpline to switch on / off and set / modify transaction limits.
Card suspension and blocking:
Bank at its sole discretion can temporarily suspend the card. The suspension can either be 
removed or the card may get permanently blocked depending upon Bank’s policy.
Analytical alert based block / suspension may be placed when the Bank observes any adverse 
trigger on cardmember account: 
1. Event based such as customer moving into High- Risk segment, card usage for transactions 
related to online forex trading, lotteries, betting, gambling, Bitcoins or any form of virtual 
currency / demographic change then the Bank may take a series of actions culminating into 
card block.
2. Instruction based such as alert triggered by external agencies like regulatory/government 
agencies (DOT, I4C-MHA, Law Enforcement Agency (LEA), NPCI etc), Credit Bureaus, usage 
on blocked MCCs etc.
 
Page 6 of 16
3. Transaction based such as when the Bank identifies suspicious transaction and 
cardmember is non contactable for confirmation of transaction.
4. Also, In case of no activity on the card by the cardmember from time to time.
Rule Based Blocks / suspension may be placed under the following scenarios:
1. Rule-based block may be placed due to displayed bad behaviour (non-payment of dues).
a. Due to Non-payment of dues.
b. Settlement: When cardmember has demonstrated inability to re-pay due amount and 
has been given waiver on total amount outstanding, this is called Settlement. 
2. When cardmember has agreed to take better variant card, existing card gets blocked.
3. Transaction Dispute: When a dispute has been reported by cardmember.
4. Inactive closure: Cardmembers who have not used their cards for 37 days from origination 
date or have remained inactive for 12 months.
5. Cardmember initiated request for card closure.
6. Deceased cardmember: In case of cardmember’s death.
7. KYC Block: This is placed when cardmembers fail to submit their KYC documents.
8. Legal Action Initiated against cardmember.
9. Return to origin: Block is placed when despite attempts, card has not been delivered to 
cardmember.
10. Lost or Stolen: Blocked on intimation from cardmember that his/her card has been lost or 
stolen.
11. Cardmember initiated potential dispute on card or transactions.
Section 4: Our KYC (Know your Customer) Policy
During the application journey, as a standard process KYC mechanisms are used as per latest 
KYC regulations issued by RBI for KYC completion to onboard credit card customers as well as 
for re-KYC purpose. Below are the KYC approaches that can be followed as per applicant’s 
choice:
 
Page 7 of 16
KYC for Credit Cards Application:
KYC Mode 1: eKYC + Video KYC
Applicant requesting for RBL Bank Credit Cards through various channels will be required to 
authenticate their Aadhaar details through OTP as a pre-requisite for completion of KYC process. 
Those applicants who complete eKYC can complete all the details required for application 
completion on digital form and then can schedule Video KYC as per preferred time, which will 
be assessed by an independent checker. 
KYC Mode 2: Biometric KYC 
Applicant may opt to fulfil KYC requirement through biometric where bank associated agent will 
meet the applicant to complete the KYC requirement. The agent will assist applicant in 
conducting biometric KYC. 
KYC Mode 3: Physical KYC 
Applicant should have Officially Valid Documents (OVD) of current address as per RBI circular on 
KYC and bank officer will validate applicant’s personal and demographic details with the 
provided document.
KYC Mode 4: Unified KYC
For existing RBL Bank customers applying for an additional products or services, the KYC, 
already available with the bank, will be leveraged at the time of application.
KYC Mode 5: C-KYC
Bank will leverage C-KYC portal for KYC basis customer consent.
KYC for add-on Cards 
For add-on Cards, only Identity proof of applicant will be taken. Below documents will be 
accepted for add-on Cards: 
▪ PAN NO.
▪ Passport 
▪ Voter ID Card 
▪ Aadhaar/ Proof of possession of Aadhaar 
▪ Driving License
For the purpose of issuance of add-on Cards, above documents will be accepted through 
primary cardmember’s registered email id.
 
Page 8 of 16
KYC for address change 
Customer has to provide valid OVD documents as per the current CDD standards through 
following modes in case there is a request of address change on card account:
▪ Registered email ID 
▪ OTP Based EKYC
▪ Registered mobile number 
▪ Digital Channels – Online Banking/MyCard/MyBank/Chatbot
▪ Bio Metric based KYC
Post declaration, due diligence is conducted by bank on the declared address.
Re-KYC basis risk tagging: 
In line with RBI guidelines, Bank conducts re-KYC basis the risk categorization of all credit card 
customers following which the respective customers are requested (through various channels) 
to share their latest KYC. In case the customer fails to submit the same, card account may get 
blocked.
Risk categorization grid with frequency of KYC is as below:
Risk Categorization Frequency
High Every 2 years from account opening
Medium Every 8 years from account opening
Low Every 10 years from account opening
For the above purpose, below modes shall be applicable for KYC:
No Change in Address/KYC (individuals): 
If the KYC available in bank records is valid and as per current standards, we shall obtain selfdeclaration from the individual through following modes: 
▪ Registered email Id 
▪ Registered Mobile Number 
▪ Digital Channels – Online Banking/MyBank/MyCard/Chatbot 
No address verification would be needed if there is no change in customer’s address.
 
Page 9 of 16
Only Address change during REKYC (individuals): 
OVD to be provided or if the KYC available in bank records is valid and as per current standards 
obtain Self declaration from the Individual through following modes: 
▪ Registered email id 
▪ OTP Based EKYC
▪ Registered Mobile Number 
▪ Bio Metric based KYC
▪ Digital Channels – Online Banking/MyBank/MyCard/Chatbot 
Due diligence is conducted by bank on the declared address.
Commercial / Business cards are issued after conducting KYC of the corporate and individual 
(each user). Corporate KYC is conducted after verifying corporate establishment due diligence 
and individual KYC can be done using any of the above-mentioned approaches.
Section 5: Capturing Customer Consent:
Bank captures explicit consent from customers through various modes on customer’s interest 
and application processing for credit card product or other additional value offerings. 
Credit Card: 
For the issuance of credit card, customer’s consent for application, associated terms, KYC and 
due diligence, etc. is obtained either through physical signature on the application or through 
OTP (one time password) consent during the application journey. While taking the consent from 
the prospective customer, a copy of Most Important Terms and Conditions and Card Member
Agreement/Card Member Declaration is shared with the customer.
Cross-Sell Offerings:
Consent for credit cards’ cross-sell products for e.g. STPL, Xpress Cash, SnP, Add On Card, 
Additional Credit card Insurance Cross-Sell etc. (products may change overtime) is also captured 
through various mechanisms/channels mentioned below. These consent mechanisms will also 
be incorporated for any future cross-sell products. 
▪ Application Form 
▪ SMS via short code
▪ IVR recordings
▪ RBL MyCard/MyBank Mobile app 
▪ Internet banking credentials 
▪ Through OTP consent on RBL Bank website 
▪ Chatbot
 
Page 10 of 16
Any acceptance from the customer on any above channels would be deemed a valid consent 
and request will be actioned. The modes of consent may change with time. Consent logs of 
SMS, E-mail, calls and other channels will be maintained by the bank. 
For Commercial cards the Bank considers consent of both corporate and individuals before 
issuance of the card. However, credit limit & terms / features of the cards are agreed with 
corporate authorized signatory only (principal account holder).
Section 6: Co-branding Arrangement and Roles
Co-branding Arrangement: 
Any co-brand partnership will be first duly approved by an internal Name Clearance Committee 
(consisting of key bank members) which follows a set framework to exercise better diligence to 
assess and decision engagement related with the co-brand partner.
Further, yearly review of existing partners happens to gauge the reputational and financial 
aspects for continuous monitoring of partner engagement.
Role of Partner:
Co-brand partner is responsible for marketing, origination of application through its own 
channel and distribution network. Bank may let some features be enabled on partner 
application (used by the cardmember) through approved integrations where partner will not 
have access to the customer data. 
However, solely for the purpose of fulfilling the product value proposition for select co-branded 
cards, the membership loyalty identification number may be exchanged between the Bank and 
its partner.
Revenue Share Arrangement with Co-Brand Partners:
Revenue sharing with cobranding entity is usually linked to new card acquisition, card spends, 
total no of customers in the cobrand program, portfolio quality, portfolio performance of the 
program etc. The criteria mentioned is indicative and not exhaustive and revenue sharing 
arrangement may vary across co-brand partners.
Retail Program Revenue Sharing Corporate Program Revenue Sharing
Paisa Bazaar Yes RazorpayX Yes
Book My Show Yes
SalarySe Yes
DMI Finance Yes
IOCL Yes
IRCTC Yes
TVS Yes
Patanjali Yes
Piramal Yes
 
Page 11 of 16
Section 7: Post-Onboarding customer engagement/Cross-Sell
Credit Card Service Extensions: 
Bank may reach out to customers for offering service extensions with a variety of value add 
cross-sell products (which may change or be added in the below list with time) like: 
▪ Dial for Cash (STPL-Short Term Personal Loans) 
▪ Xpress Cash 
▪ SnP (EMI Conversion) 
▪ Utility Bill Payments 
▪ EMI Infinity Pass 
▪ SnP Plus 
▪ Retail Banking Products 
▪ Insurance and Protection products 
▪ Add On Card
Post-onboarding Engagement: 
Card Activation
Cards dispatched to customers are sent in accordance with the card’s security guidelines. Postdelivery of credit card, a card will be deemed active once any of the below events are triggered 
by the customer:
▪ Successfully processed and approved retail/cash transaction 
▪ Card PIN change via any channel such as MyCard/MyBank application, IVR and website 
▪ Settings change through Card Controls (switch control on or off) 
▪ Successful registration on MyCard/MyBank application 
▪ Card unblock through any bank’s channel (SMS short code/IVR/reaching out to customer 
service helpline) for deactivated cards delivered with speed post 
▪ Creating token on merchant websites without transaction authorization
▪ Miss Call given by card member through registered Mobile Number on Bank’s dedicated 
Activation Number
▪ SMS Short Code sent by customer from registered Mobile Number on Bank’s dedicated 
number
▪ Activation consent given through WhatsApp from Cardmember's registered Mobile Number
▪ Consent given through IVR from registered Mobile Number to Activate the card
▪ Activation consent given through RBL Cares (Bank’s Chatbot)
▪ Commercial cards given to any corporate can be activated by the principal account holder 
(corporate authorized signatory) or respective user. 
 
Page 12 of 16
MyCard/MyBank Mobile App: 
Bank provides credit card customers with a dedicated Mobile App “RBL MyCard/MyBank” 
available at Android and iOS platforms which encapsulates various functionalities (may change 
with time) such as: 
▪ Spends Analyzer
▪ Location-based offers 
▪ Utility bill payments 
▪ Other cross sell products 
▪ Promotional offers 
▪ Statements 
▪ Bill payments 
▪ Access digital savings accounts 
▪ Reward program 
▪ Card controls and card settings 
▪ Help/support 
▪ Other features aimed at better customer experience 
Chatbot/WhatsApp: 
Customers can also access digital services via the Bank’s chatbot/WhatsApp. This is available on 
the Bank’s website and is also sent as part of outreach or promotional campaigns. 
Billing and Payments: 
Bank will send monthly statement to customers at their registered email address or mailing 
address as per their billing cycle, with details of payments credited and the spends, transactions 
debited to their respective account since the last statement date.
Multiple bill payment options (both offline and online) are available for customers to pay their 
Credit Card bills- including NEFT, Internet Banking, UPI, NACH, Cash and Cheque. A Standard 
Instruction (SI) form may be taken from an existing bank’s customer to enable his/her credit 
card bill payments. In addition, in case of secured card a lien maybe marked against customer’s 
banking account to recover dues.
Commercial card re-payment can be done in bulk by corporate or one-by-one for each 
employee / individual card users.
Card Controls 
As per RBI guidelines – ‘enhancing security of card transactions’, bank is sending credit card 
plastics with card controls enabled for only domestic ATM and POS transactions. Customers can 
instantly switch on the transaction categories and control spends limits using any of the below 
self-help channels:
 
Page 13 of 16
▪ MyCard App
▪ MyBank App 
▪ IVR (Only transaction categories)
▪ RBL Cares Chatbot on http://www.rbl.bank.in
▪ WhatsApp
Contactless functionality: RBL Bank has started issuing credit card plastic with contactless 
technology. Plastics which have contactless technology carry the contactless logo. This enables 
customers to make contactless POS transaction up to Rs.5,000 at contactless enabled POS 
terminal.
Recurring Transactions: To process recurring merchant payments, RBL Bank has tied up with 
payments partner for its Standard Instruction (SI) Hub solution to comply with the regulatory 
mandates on recurring transactions. Recurring transactions are processed basis SI validation 
flag sent by the acquirer at the time of authorisation. Currently, RBL bank has a tie up with 
Billdesk (SI Hub) & RazorPay (HQ Mandate) to provide the above facility.
Loss/Theft/Misuse of Card: In scenarios, where customer reports credit card as lost or stolen, 
claims/reports misuse, block code is placed at card level and an immediate communication goes 
to customer once block is placed. Customer can call RBL Bank Credit Card Helpline on the 
numbers mentioned on the website (https://www.rbl.bank.in/contact-us) to report the loss, 
theft or unauthorized use of card or PIN. 
Dispute Transactions: Customer may dispute any transaction by contacting the helpline or 
approaching the grievance redressal mechanism. The Bank will follow the dispute resolution 
process in accordance with the stipulated guideline. Bank has setup multiple risk rules to 
identify suspicious transactions for safety & security of customer’s credit card, the card gets 
blocked if transaction seems to be suspicious. Customers can get the card unblocked 
immediately by giving us consent.
Card Closure: Customer can reach out to bank’s customer care number or dedicated customer 
service email id cardcancellation@rbl.bank.in for requesting card closure. For Commercial Card 
closure, customer can reach out to Corporate Card Support Team at 
CorporateCard.Support@rbl.bank.in. The request will be honoured within seven working days 
by the bank subject to payment of all dues by the customer. If card is unused for a year by 
customer, Bank will initiate card closure post 30 days of intimation to customer if the intent of 
keeping card active has not been consented from customer. 
If a credit card has not been activated by the customer for more than 30 days from the date of 
issuance, Bank shall close the credit card account without any cost to the customer within seven 
working days. 
 
Page 14 of 16
Section 8: Fees and Charges
All disclosures, fees, charges and applicable interest rates duly approved by the board 
associated with credit card are updated in MITC and Schedule of Charges, links of which are as 
under: 
MITC: 
https://webassets.rbl.bank.in/document/Credit%20Cards/RBL-MITC-final.pdf
https://webassets.rbl.bank.in/document/credit-cards/commercial-cards-mitc.pdf
Schedule of Charges: 
https://webassets.rbl.bank.in/document/Credit%20Cards/CardsScheduleCharges.pdf
https://webassets.rbl.bank.in/document/credit-cards/commercial-cards-schedule-ofcharges.pdf
The consent on the MITC/CMA/CMD and conditions is taken at the application stage. Bank 
communicates annual fee, limit, features, MITC & SOC via multiple SMS & Emails to the 
customers. Bank’s written communication will take precedence over any verbal communication 
made by the representative.
Section 9: Collections Policy
Collection activities are performed when an account turns overdue on their payment obligation
In order to prevent accounts from turning overdue/delinquent, digital reminders are sent 
before the payment due date.
The collection process of the bank is carried out primarily through three different modes, viz. 
digital reminders, tele-calling & field visitations by authorized debt recovery agents employed by 
authorized collection/recovery agencies of the bank. Overdue accounts are assigned to debt 
recovery agents for field visitations after attempts to recover the overdue amount through digital 
reminders and tele-calling have failed.
The bank has a defined code of conduct for its collection/recovery agents, which outlines 
requirements that need to be adhered by its agents when contacting a customer for 
collection/recovery of the overdue amount. It is aligned to the standards of banking practices 
for banks set by BCSBI (The Banking Code and Standards Board of India) and Fair Practices Code 
for lenders.
The bank has a detailed collection/recovery policy approved by the Board, which outlines the 
process and the approach to be followed to carry out the collection activity in an effective, 
efficient, and compliant manner, in sync with regulatory norms and service standards of the 
bank.
 
Page 15 of 16
Section 10: Services and Grievance Redressal 
Once a customer applies for a credit card, they may contact the Bank through any of the 
available communication channels for enquiries and/or redressal of concerns.
▪ For queries related to the credit card application status, the customer may call the Bank or 
track the application online at https://www.rbl.bank.in/track-app-status
▪ Level I: Customer Care number at 022-6232 7777 or 18001026222 or 
o For Retail cards email to cardservices@rbl.bank.in from registered e-mail id or write 
to the bank to: Card Services, RBL Bank Limited, Unit 306-311, 3rd Floor, JMD 
Megapolis, Sohna Road, Sector-48, Gurgaon, Haryana – 122018
o For commercial card, email to corporatecard.support@rbl.bank.in from registered 
email id or write to the bank to: Corporate Card Support, RBL Bank Limited, 2nd 
Floor, JMD Megapolis, Sohna Road, Sector-48, 122018, Gurgaon, Haryana
▪ Level II: In case customer is not satisfied with the provided resolution, customer can email 
to headcardservice@rbl.bank.in with mention of card reference number provided at level 1 
▪ Level-III: In case customer is still dissatisfied at level ii, he/she can escalate to our Principal 
nodal Mr. Vikas Nigam by calling at 022-71432700 or writing email to 
principalnodalofficer@rbl.bank.in
The timeline of grievance redressal is duly updated in the grievance redressal policy of the Bank. 
The bank compensates the customer as per the compensation policy hosted on the website in 
accordance with the regulatory guidelines.
Link: Customer Compensation and Protection Policy
Section 11: Reporting of Information to Credit Information Companies
Under the Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005, all banks and financial 
institutions are required to share relevant customer information with Credit Information 
Companies (CIC) (that have obtained Certificate of Registration from RBI) to improve the 
functionality and stability of the Indian financial system. This activity requires the Bank to 
disclose information relating to credit history/repayment record and/or days past due status of 
the Card Member to the CICs.
Reporting Responsibilities of the Bank: 
For providing information relating to credit history/repayment record of the cardmember to a 
Credit Information Company, the Bank will explicitly bring to the notice of the customer that 
such information is being provided in accordance with the terms of the Credit Information 
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005. The Bank will make this disclosure a part of the Most 
Important Terms and Conditions (MITC) so that the customer is fully aware about the same at 
the time of entering into a relationship with the Bank.
The information elements to be shared with the CICs have been pre-aligned between CICs and 
RBI and the Bank will strive to adhere to the same approved format while reporting information. 
 
Page 16 of 16
The Bank will also report credit information relating to a new credit card account to Credit 
Information Companies only post activation of the card. 
Reporting of Delinquencies: 
The Bank will report a credit card account as 'past due' to credit information companies (CICs) 
only when a credit card account remains 'past due' for more than three days. The number of 
'days past due' is to be computed from the payment due date mentioned in the credit card 
statement. 
The Bank will intimate a Customer before reporting a credit cardmember as delinquent to a 
Credit Information Company (CIC). In case of commercial / business cards, reporting will be 
done for the corporate. 
In the event the customer settles his/her dues after having been reported as defaulter, the Bank 
will update the status within a month from the date of the settling of dues. 
Reporting of Account Closure:
The information regarding the closure of a card account will be updated with the Credit 
Information Companies within one month of the closure event.
Section 12: Compliance with other Instructions
Bank’s credit card’s function follows list of various binding policies and regulations to determine 
the governance mechanism for conduct of its business and related processes. Some of the main 
RBI guidelines (but not limited to) are listed below that we follow on: 
▪ Customer’s limiting liability in unauthorized electronic banking transactions 
▪ Enhancing security of card transactions 
▪ Managing risks and code of conduct in outsourcing of financial services by banks 
▪ Harmonisation of turnaround time (TAT) and customer compensation for failed transactions 
using authorised payment systems 
▪ Security controls on digital payments
▪ KYC directions 
▪ Guidelines on Digital Lending
▪ Guidelines for overseas forex trading through credit cards 
▪ Processing of e-mandate on cards for recurring transactions 
▪ Restriction on storage of actual card data 
▪ Storage of payment system data 
▪ Tokenisation of card transactions
▪ Guidelines for outsourcing technology and services by committee on banking sector reforms
▪ Arrangements with Card Networks for issue of Credit Cards
Ver 11.02.2026