Annexure-I
POLICY ON MULTI CITY CHEQUES
(Issuance, Collection & Dishonour)
Dated: 25.10.2021
Version-2.0
 Banking Operations Department
 R & DB Operations
 Corporate Centre, Mumbai
2021
POLICY ON MULTI CITY CHEQUES
(Issuance, Collection & Dishonour)
INDEX
SR. 
No.
DESCRIPTION PAGE 
No.
1 Introduction 1
2 Background 2
3 Policy on Multi City Cheques (MCC) 3-7
4 Payment of Cheques 7-11
5 Cheque Collection Policy 11-18
6 Time frame for collection of outstation instruments 18-19
7 Interest payment for delayed collection 19-20
8 Cheques / instruments lost in transit / in clearing 
process or at paying bank’s branch
20-22
9 Collection of International Cheques/Instruments 22-28
10 General points for collection of cheque 28
11 Policy for dealing with incidents of Frequent 
Dishonour of Cheques and Failed NACH
29-35
12 Amendment/Modification of the Policy 35-36
13 Force Majeure 36
14 Reasons / Information on Dishonour of Cheque 37-41
15 Format of Cheque (Annexure VI) 42
ABBREVATIONS
A/C Account
A/c Payee Account Payee
ACB Audit Committee of the Board
AWB Air-Way Bill
BC Bearer Cheque
BCSBI Banking Codes and Standards Board of India
BID Business Intelligence Division
CAD Canadian Dollar
CA Current Account
CAG Corporate Accounts Group
CBS Core Banking Solution
CC Cash Credit
CCG Corporate Client Group
CCP Cheque Collection Policy
CCPAP Corporate Client Cheque Payable At-Par
CCPC Cheque Clearing Processing Cell
CMP Cash Management Product
CTS Cheque Truncation System
CIF Customer Information File
ECCS Electronic Cheque Clearing System
FCC Foreign Cheque Collection
FRT Financial Reporting & Taxation Department
GBP British Pound Sterling
GLS Global Link Services
GMU Global Market
HNI High Net-worth Individual
IBA Indian Bank Association
IBG International Banking Group
KYC Know Your Customer
LCPC Liability Centralised Processing Centre
MCC Multi City Cheque
MMS Mandate Management System
NACH National Automated Clearing House
NPCI National Payment Corporation of India
NRI Non-Resident Indian
PBBU Personal Banking Business Unit
PPS Positive Pay System
RBO Regional Business Office
R&DB Retail & Digital Banking
SB Saving Bank
SME Small & Medium Enterprise
SMS Small Message Service
SCS Speed Clearing System
TBU Transaction Business Unit
URRBCH Uniform Rules and Regulations for Bankers’ Clearing House
1 | P a g e
POLICY ON MULTI CITY CHEQUES
(Issuance, Collection & Dishonour)
1. Introduction
1.1.Reserve Bank of India has laid down CTS 2010 Standards for issuance of Cheques.
With the advent of Core Banking Solution, the Cheques have been made payable 
at all the branches of the Bank. “Accordingly, MCC payable at Par, CTS-2010 
Standard Compliant Cheques are being issued by the Bank”. The payee can 
present the cheque for the amount which is within the ceiling printed on the face 
of the Cheque, directly at any of our branches or in clearing. Only MCC CTS 2010 
standard cheques are issued now and no other variant can be used.
1.2.RBI vide Master Circular DBR No.Leg.BC.21/09.07.2006/2015-16 dated 01st July,
2015 (point no 14 page no 53) under Collection of Instruments, directed the Banks 
to formulate a comprehensive and transparent policy taking into account their 
technological capabilities, system and processes adopted for clearing 
arrangements and other internal arrangements for collection through 
correspondents. This covers three aspects: Immediate Credit for local / outstation 
cheques, Time frame for Collection of Local / Outstation Instruments, Interest 
payment for delayed collection. IBA has also issued model policy on Collection of 
cheques/instruments. Accordingly, Cheque Collection Policy was put in place. The 
Policy takes adequate care to ensure that the interest of small depositors is fully 
protected.
1.3.Frequent Dishonour of Cheque or failure of NACH (National Automated Clearing 
House)/ECS (Electronic Clearing System) is another important aspect of banking
transaction.
a) RBI had, vide their Notification no.DBOD.NO.Leg.BC.59/ 09.07.005/ 2009-10
2 | P a g e
 dated 9th November 2009, advised that frequent instances of dishonour of 
cheque of value less than ₹.1 crore is a matter of great concern and that banks 
need to take appropriate action in those accounts where such instances of
dishonour of cheques occur. 
 b) RBI had also advised, vide their Master Circular DBR NO.Leg.BC.21/
 09.07.006/2015-16 dated 01st July, 2015, guidelines for dealing with incidents
 of frequent dishonour of cheques of ₹. 1 Crore and above. RBI has provided 
 discretion to the banks to have their own approach to deal with recalcitrant 
 customers as per their Board approved policy for dealing with incidents of 
 frequent dishonour of cheques and failed NACH/ECS mandate.
c) RBI has, vide notification no. DBR.No.Leg.BC.3/09.07.005/ 2016-17 dated 04th
 August, 2016, left it to the discretion of the banks to determine their response 
 to dishonour of cheques of the account holders, steps to prevent misuse of the 
 cheque drawing facility and also to avoid penalizing customers for unintended 
 dishonour of cheques.
2. Background
In the above backdrop, Policy on Multi City Cheques (Issuance, Collection & 
Dishonour) was last approved by Central Board in its meeting held on 25.10.2019
for a period of two years. The policy is reviewed based on the instructions issued 
by RBI and Bank from time to time in all matters relating to Cheques and their 
usage by customers.
3 | P a g e
3. Policy on Multi City Cheques (MCC):
 MCC is a cheque drawn by a customer in favour of a person/entity named therein and 
is payable at par at all branches of SBI, subject to detailed terms and conditions as 
under:
a) The payee can present the cheque directly at any of our branches or in clearing 
through his bank.
b) In case of a Multi City Cheque, the term drawee would connote any branch of SBI 
in India.
 c) MCCs may be issued “bearer” or “order” as detailed under 3.5 below.
3.1 Eligibility criteria for issuance of MCCs: 
 All branches are authorized to issue MCC. All customers having Cheque operated 
accounts, with valid registered mobile number are eligible for getting MCC. Cheque 
book issue request should be accepted only in fully KYC compliant accounts.
3.2 Upper Limit of MCCs: There will be no limit on amount of MCC for payment at 
home branch. However, for payment at Non-Home branches, cap on amount is 
applicable, which is printed on the MCC as under:
 “Valid upto ₹…….lakh at Non-Home branch for Non-Cash Transaction only”.
 At small branches manned by one officer and one clerk, cap of ₹5 Lakh will be 
applicable irrespective of the legend/ ceiling mentioned on the cheque.
3.3 For transfer transactions at Non-Home Branch, the maximum limits are as 
 under:
a) Savings Bank Accounts (instrument type 31):
i) Savings Bank other than HNI/NRI : ₹10 lakh.
ii) HNI/ NRI Savings Bank* : ₹50 lakh.
 *MCC may be issued without any legend/ ceiling, if so specifically requisitioned by 
 the account holder, at the discretion of the Branch Manager.
4 | P a g e
b) Current Accounts** (Instrument type 29):
i) Personal, Corporate & Institutional, Govt. Department: ₹50 Lakh.
ii) In case of Govt. Department accounts: No cap.
(if a separate arrangement exists with the Department)
iii) Corporate Client Cheques Payable at Par (CCPAP): 
 With facsimile signature : ₹ 100.00Lakh.
Otherwise : Unlimited. 
iv) Under Corporate Client Cheques Payable At Par (CCPAP) the instrument 
number, account number, instrument type, amount and date of expiry are 
validated at the time of payment to ensure against fraudulent payment of the 
CCPAP.
c) Cash Credit** (Instrument type 30): Max. ₹50 lacs.
 ** MCC may be issued without any legend/ ceiling, if so specifically requisitioned by 
the account holder, at the discretion of the Branch Manager.
3.4 Cash Payment at Non-Home Branch: Maximum limit
a) ‘P’ segment: 
i. Self-Payment: ₹50,000/-, No Cash payment to third parties.
ii. Super Senior Citizens (more than 80 years of age): Cash payment to third party 
upto ₹10,000/-.
b) SME segment: ₹1,00, 000/- for self. No cash payment to third parties.
c) AGR segment: ₹1,00, 000/- for self (KCC Cheques only)
d) No cash payment of CAG/CCG/CMP Cheques at non-home branch.
e) No limit for cash withdrawal by self for Wealth Savings account holders opened under 
Wealth Management initiative (WMBU)
3.5 Issuance of MCC: ORDER/ BEARER (based on Account holder’s Risk 
perception) 
a) Issue of Order MCC:
i. In Savings Bank accounts, (HNIs/NRIs, Trusts, Societies & other eligible 
organisations etc.) “Order” MCC will be issued by default.
ii. In all Cash Credit & Current Accounts, only “Order” MCC will be issued.
5 | P a g e
b) Issue of Bearer MCC:
 In other retail segment Savings Bank account, other than those mentioned in para 
 3.5 (a) above, “Bearer” MCC will be issued by default. There is also a specific 
 provision for requisition of “Order” Cheques.
3.6 Charges for Issuance of MCC:
 As per prevailing charges revised from time to time.
3.7 Number of cheque leaves:
a) Savings Bank Account
i. Personal Segment Customers : 10/25 leaves
ii. SME Segment Customers : 10/25/50 leaves
b) Current Account : 25/50/100 leaves
c) Cash Credit : 25/50/100 leaves
d) Emergency Cheque Book : 5/10 leaves
e) Non-Personalised Welcome Kit : 5 leaves
f) In case of specific requirement of the Corporate/ Firm/ Entity, MCC may be issued for 
1000 leaves on continuous stationery.
g) Cash Management Product (CMP) will print MCC for corporate clients and institutions 
using CCPAP (instrument type 29), as mentioned in para 3.3 b) iii). 
h) Branches will ensure that adequate stocks of such cheque books of 5 and 10 cheque 
leaves are available with them to meet the emergency requirement of the customers.
(Service charges at applicable rate will be levied for issuance of cheque books)
3.8 Printing & Issuance of Multi City CTS-2010 Standard Cheques:
a) Printing of MCCs will be in full conformity with CTS- 2010 Standards.
b) MCCs are printed at various locations identified by the Bank for a group of branches/ 
Modules/ Networks/ Circles. This arrangement may be reviewed from time to time.
6 | P a g e
c) Our Multi City Cheques (CTS 2010) have ’12’ security features as under:
• Mandatory Standard Cheque Security Features as per CTS 2010 Guidelines (9 in 
number)
i) CTS India Watermark paper
ii) VOID Pantograph
iii) Bank’s Logo in UV Ink
iv) Micro Lettering
v) Cheque Colours & Background Mandatory CTS Standards
vi) New Rupee symbol
vii) Standardized Field Placements
viii) Account Number Field
ix) Printer Name along with CTS 2010
• Additional Security features adopted by our Bank (3 in number)
x) Fugitive Background with Secondary Fluorescent Ink
xi) Account Number printed in Reverse in a Black Box
xii)UV Band in variable fields (Payee’s Name, Amount in Words, Amount in figure 
and Account Number)
To minimize cheque related fraud, a new security feature of UV Band in variable field 
(Payee’s Name, Amount in words, Amount in figure and Account number) is 
incorporated w.e.f 22.08.2020, so that any alteration made in these areas would be 
visible when cheque is verified under UV lamp. All new MCC cheque books printed by 
security printers will contain this feature along with existing security features. All 
existing cheque books without this feature will continue to be honoured as per existing 
instructions.
3.9 Dispatching cheque books:
 MCC Cheque books will be dispatched to customers on their last recorded address or 
the address mentioned while making requisition. SMS is sent to the Customer three
times on Mobile number registered in CBS, once at the time of recording indent and 
7 | P a g e
the second at the time of dispatch with Air Way Bill (AWB) tracker number provided 
by Department of Posts (DoP) and the third at the time of receipt of delivery 
information from DoP. If SMS remains undelivered, then causes for failure of SMS in 
such cases will be analysed at GITC. Exception report will be generated at the Branch 
and it will be dealt with critically.
3.10 Cheque Books received back undelivered:
a) Cheque Books returned undelivered are received back at Home Branch. These will be 
blocked, marked “STOPPED” in CBS. 
b) It will be the responsibility of the Home Branch to keep safe custody of undelivered 
Cheque Books and to mark “STOP” in the system. Home Branch will make entry in 
undelivered Cheque Book register immediately on receipt of such undelivered Cheque 
Book and will keep it in Joint Custody. 
c) The Branch will arrange to contact account holder over his/ her Mobile number 
registered in CBS and record the same in the Register. Branch should also initiate the 
process for up dation of address, backed by relevant documents. 
d) On delivery of Cheque Book to the customer after proper identification, STOP will be 
removed by the branch in CBS. Re-delivery / activation of such cheque book in such 
cases is subject to Maker-Checker.
e) If Cheque Book is not delivered to customer within 2 months from the date of 
issuance, the Branch will arrange to destroy the undelivered Cheque Book in the 
presence of Joint Custodians duly recorded in the Register maintained for the purpose.
f) Cheque books returned undelivered and destroyed by the branch will be permanently
deactivated in CBS thereby ensuring against any inadvertent error or surreptitious 
removal of STOP, leading to fraudulent payment of such cheques.
4. Payment of Cheques
4.1 Preliminary scrutiny of the cheques before payment:
8 | P a g e
a) Bank’s logo and name be checked under UV lamp.
b) Cheque is within validity period.
c) Amount in words and figures is same.
d) Cheque leaf is from the cheque series issued to the customer concerned.
e) Drawer’s signature is available on the face of the cheque and tallies with the 
specimen signature recorded with the Bank.
f) The instrument is duly discharged by the customer.
g) All cheques above ₹ 25000/- be subjected to fugitive ink / water droplet test to 
ascertain the genuineness of the instrument.
h) All cheques above ₹ 50000/- be subjected to ultra violet lamp test to ascertain 
the genuineness of the instrument. A stamp confirming such verification “UV 
Lamp verified” should be affixed on back of the cheque. 
i) Customer to be contacted over phone/mobile number registered with the Bank 
before making payment of cheque for amount of ₹ 2.00 lakh and above. Circles 
may fix lower limit based on Fraud History for Tele calling.
j) In case of payment of Non-Home cheques of ₹ 5.00 lakh and above or any 
suspicious transactions irrespective of the amount involved, the drawer is to be 
contacted over registered mobile number to ascertain genuineness of the 
instrument/transaction. 
k) In case, the customer could not be contacted while making payment of Cheque 
 presented in clearing/ over the counter, email is sent to Home Branch and also to
 the customer concerned on email ID registered with the Bank. Home Branch 
should accordingly take up the matter with the customer. Record of such calls be 
maintained.
l) All cheques with reasons to any doubt on genuineness should be subjected to 
fugitive ink/water droplet test and ultra violet lamp test, irrespective of amount.
m) Physical verification of cheque is to be carried out in a meticulous manner, so as 
to avoid payment of cloned cheques.
9 | P a g e
n) Discrete enquiries are to be made from the presenter of the cheque for payment over
the counter.
o) In case of Multi City Cheque presented at non-home branches, amount of the cheque 
should be within value cap mentioned on the cheque.
p) All high value instruments must be referred to the Branch Head/ CCPC Head and in 
case of suspicion, the drawer branch/ customer drawing the cheque should be 
referred before releasing payment.
q) Branches to ensure seeding of correct and updated Mobile number/Email in the 
accounts to receive SMS/Email alerts and calls from Bank, to ascertain genuineness 
of the instrument/transaction.
4.2 Payment of MCC with risk mitigation system:
a) The payment of MCC at home branch / CCPC will have no restriction with regard to
limit on amount printed on the Cheques.
b) The payment of MCC at non-home branch (other than CCPC) will be restricted as per 
the limit of the Cheque (as per legend mentioned on the Cheque as narrated herein
above).
c) Payment of cheques at Non-Home Branches where both legs are Non-Home is to be 
allowed after usual scrutiny for amount up to ₹5.00 lakhs and ensuring compliance of 
instructions detailed under para 4 and sub-para 4.4 of e-Circular R&DB/BODGB/32/2018-19 dated 12.07.2018 and e-Circular R&DB/BOD-GB/67/2019-20 dated 
29.08.2019.
d) The functionality in CBS is available, to ensure that the payment of MCC at non-home 
branches is made as per the value cap mentioned on the cheque.
e) Passing for payment of high value cheques of ₹50 lakh and above will be physically 
authorised by two officials. 
f) In the event of any instance of compromise of cheque(s) in an account is observed / 
reported, the remaining cheque(s) in the series issued to the customer will be 
deactivated by the Branch after receiving specific consent in writing from the 
customer.
10 | P a g e
4.2.1 Payment of non-CTS-2010 MCC (Payable at Par)
a) Customers holding non-CTS cheques if any, are to be contacted for surrender of nonCTS cheque leaves and for issuance of MCCs as per CTS 2010 guidelines. 
b) Non-CTS Cheques should be replaced by requesting for CTS-2010 Standard Cheques 
through Home Branch.
c) The payment of existing Order Multi-city (payable at par) non-CTS-2010 standard 
cheques already issued to the customers will be allowed for cash payment at Home 
branches only.
d) Non-CTS Cheques (cheques not compliant with CTS-2010 standards) will not be 
accepted in the CTS clearing system w.e.f 01.01.2019.
e) Drawee branches need to exercise extra caution while honouring/ making payment of 
Non-CTS cheques and in case of any doubt, may return them.
4.3 POSITIVE PAY SYSTEM (PPS) FOR CHEQUE PAYMENT
a) Competent authority has approved implementation of RBI directives on Positive Pay 
System and provision of the facility to all our customers having cheque operated 
accounts effective from 01.01.2021. The facility is provided to customers through our 
branches as well as alternate channels like Internet Banking (both CINB & RINB), 
Mobile Banking, YONO, SMS etc. The facility is being implemented for clearing 
cheques as well as cheque payments over the counter (both cash & transfer).
b) Concept of Positive Pay involves a process wherein the customer who is issuing 
cheque informs the drawee bank the details of cheque issued like Cheque number, 
date of issue, amount, name of payee/beneficiary etc., which are stored in the system. 
When the said cheque is presented for payment, the details in respect of the cheque 
stored in the system are cross-checked with the corresponding details on the 
presented physical cheque/image of cheque. 
c) RBI has advised that only those cheques which are compliant with above instructions 
will be accepted under dispute resolution mechanism at the CTS Grids. 
d) As such, no cheque should be returned, if otherwise in order, till the Positive Pay 
System stabilizes and until further instructions, for the only reason of mismatch with/
11 | P a g e
want of PPS data. 
(reference e-circular R&DB/AGNYBHG-CTS/ 8/2020-21 dated 23.12.2020)
4.4 Stop Payment of Cheques:
a) Branches will accept stop payment instruction from the depositors in respect of 
Cheques issued by them, provided the cheque in question has not been paid by 
the Bank. Charges, as applicable, will be recovered.
b) Account holders can request the Bank in writing to register Stop Payment 
instructions in respect of cheques issued or lost by them.
c) Stop Cheque payment request can also be made online by customers having Internet 
Banking/YONO/YONO Lite facility with transactions rights. 
4.5 Cheques destroyed and cancelled by the Customer:
There may be instances of Cheques written by the customer erroneously and
 destroyed / cancelled. Information on such cases may be given to the Bank. Such
intimation by the customer may be recorded as stop payment and no charges will be
levied. This will be made a part of instructions on the cheque book, for guidance of
the customers.
5. Cheque Collection Policy:
Bank’s Cheque Collection Policy has been formulated as a comprehensive document 
with transparency, covering various aspects, taking into account our technological 
capabilities, systems and processes adopted for clearing arrangements and other 
internal arrangements for collection through different methods. The Policy takes 
adequate care to ensure that the interest of small depositors is fully protected and
is in line with the IBA’s model policy on Collection of cheques/instruments. The
procedure for collection of domestic cheques / instruments and international
instruments have been included herein, which, inter alia, incorporates the following:
a) Collection of Bank’s own cheques (local and outstation).
b) Collection of cheques drawn on local or outstation branch of other banks.
12 | P a g e
c) Time frame for collection of outstation/local cheques drawn on our own branches 
and branches of other banks.
d) Penalty for delayed collection for local/outstation cheques in a progressive manner.
e) Amount of cheque up to which immediate credit is to be provided. 
5.1 Cheque clearing process under CTS based clearing system
a) The printing of IOI instruments is also now migrated on “CTS-2010 standard” 
platform. Cheque Truncation System (CTS) is presently working at:
Northern grid in Delhi (Geographical jurisdiction of 21 MICR centres in the states/UT 
of Bihar, Chandigarh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, 
Jharkhand, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. This is covered by our 
5 Circles, namely, Chandigarh, Delhi, Jaipur, Lucknow and Patna).
Southern Grid in Chennai (Geographical jurisdiction of 25 MICR centres in eight 
states namely Orissa, West Bengal, Guwahati (including seven North East States viz. 
Sikkim, Tripura, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Assam and Meghalaya), 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamilnadu and Union Territory of 
Puduchery. This is covered by our 8 Circles, namely, Amaravati, Bengaluru, 
Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Thiruvananthapuram).
Western grid in Mumbai (Geographical jurisdiction of 20 MICR centres in five states 
namely Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and Chhattisgarh. This is covered 
by our 4 Circles, namely, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Maharashtra and Mumbai Metro).
b) All centres covered under the same grid will be treated as a single clearing zone and 
cheques drawn on these centres and presented at any of the grid centres are treated 
as locally drawn cheques in as much as no clearing charges would be applicable for 
such cheques.
c) RBI has directed that no changes/corrections should be carried out on the cheques. 
For any changes in the payee’s name, currency amount (amount in figures) or legal 
amount (amount in words) etc, fresh cheque forms should be used by customers. This 
will help Banks to identify and control fraudulent alterations. Collecting banks have to 
ensure that such cheques are not accepted for presentation in CTS. This is not 
applicable to cheques cleared over the counter collection (for cash payment) or direct 
collection of cheques outside the Clearing House Arrangement.
13 | P a g e
d) Branches dealing with government business under CTS centres are required to 
 update their CBS data. Account level ground work :- Get linked to respective CCPC 
 by completing following activities for all State & Central Government Accounts 
 maintained at the Branch:
i) Capture signatures of Drawing & Disbursing Officers (DDOs) of respective 
Govt. departments and upload the same in CBS.
ii) Upload mandate / account operating instructions in CBS.
iii) Allocate cheque series (existing or CTS compliant category) to the respective 
State / Central Government Account.
iv) Limits / LOCs are to be updated as per the instructions / requirements of the 
Government Account holder.
v) Ensure that Major-head/sub-head/ supplementary-head for Central 
Government Accounts or State Govt. code / Focal Point Branch code / C or S 
flag is defined correctly against each Central / State Government Account at 
the Branch.
 5.2 Speed Clearing System: - Outstation cheques drawn on banks participating in 
speed clearing at specified locations will be collected and treated at par with local 
cheques. All terms and conditions applicable for local clearing instruments will also 
apply to speed clearing system, except that such cheques will be collected by the 
collecting bank against realization of service charges specified for the purpose. 
Speed Clearing System is applicable for CTS-2010 grid based clearing system. 
5.3 The list of objections for return of Instruments and Image based Cheque Clearing, 
as detailed in Annexure D to Uniform Regulations and Rules for Bankers’ Clearing 
House, has been placed as Annexure-I of this document.
5.4 Cheque return charges shall be levied, at applicable rates, only in cases where the 
customer is at fault and is responsible for such returns. The list of reasons for 
return, where the customers are not at fault is as per Annexure-II. Charges will 
not be levied in such cases.
14 | P a g e
5.5 Cheques that need to be re-presented without any reference to the payee shall be 
presented in the immediate next clearing, not later than 24 hours (excluding 
holidays). Notification will be sent to the customers for such re-presentation by 
SMS or e-Mail.
5.6 Dishonour /Return of cheques: Branch needs to mention the ‘Date of Return’ & 
sign/initial the Cheque Return Memo, giving therein a definite and valid reason for 
refusing payment as prescribed in Rule 6 of the Uniform Regulations and Rules for 
Bankers’ Clearing Houses (URRBCH). This will enable the holder of the instrument 
to have legal recourse against the drawer of the cheque. 
5.7 Collection of Third Party Cheques in clearing: RBI has prohibited Banks from 
crediting ‘Account Payee’ cheques to the account of any person other than the 
payee named therein. However, with a view to mitigating the difficulties faced by 
members of co-operative credit societies in collection of account payee cheques, 
RBI has permitted banks to collect account payee cheques for such societies drawn 
for an amount not exceeding ₹.50,000/- on behalf of their constituents. 
5.8 Time limit for deposit of Cheques:
 a) Cheques deposited at branch counters and Cheques deposited in the drop box 
 within the branch premises, before the specified cut-off time will be sent for 
 clearance on same day, for which the clearance period will be T+1 working day. 
b) Cheques deposited after this cut off time will be sent for clearing on next day, for 
which clearance period will be T+2 working days. 
c) The broad time–limit for receipt of cheques (say up to 3 hours after opening of 
branch etc.) and cheques deposited in CDK (Cheque Deposit Kiosk) which may be 
fine-tuned for individual locations/branches, based on local practices. This will be 
fixed with the approval of the Controllers of the respective branches. 
d) All drop-boxes shall clearly indicate the timeline as above up to which cheques 
dropped in the drop boxes would be sent for clearing on the same day.
15 | P a g e
e) Cheques deposited after the cut-off time in Branch Drop Box and cheques deposited 
in drop-boxes outside the branch premises including off-site ATMs, will be 
presented in the next clearing cycle.
f) As a policy, Bank would give credit to the customer account on the same day after 
day’s clearing settlement takes place and will appear in book balance but would not 
be available for payment. Withdrawal of amount so credited will be permitted as 
per the cheque return schedule of the clearing house.
g) The timeline for clearing of local cheques will be extended by two additional days 
in case of branches having non-Sunday weekly off and also preceding working day
 in 2nd & 4th weekend also being holiday. It will be extended by one additional day 
 only during 1st, 3rd & 5th week for branches working on Sunday.
h) Bank branches, situated at centres where no clearing house exists, would present 
local cheques on drawee banks across the counter and proceeds thereof would be 
credited at the earliest on realization.
i) Normal collection charges applicable at the material time will be levied for local 
cheques not collected through clearing, irrespective of the amount of cheques.
j) SC/DDP automation has been implemented for collection of outstation cheques of 
other banks from centres where speed clearing system is not available.
k) In the case of collection of outstation cheques at centers, where the Speed Clearing 
System is not applicable, our collecting branches will levy 50% of their applicable 
charges for collection of outstation cheques. The drawee/paying branch may also 
levy 50% of applicable charges.
5.9.I Negotiation of Cheques:
a) Negotiation of local cheques/instruments drawn on other banks will not be 
permitted. Branch Managers may use their discretion in exceptional circumstances 
(business exigencies) to permit drawl’s against uncleared effects up to ₹. 30,000/-
(Rupees thirty thousand only), in deposit accounts. The facility can be provided 
only on well conducted, KYC compliant accounts as mentioned in paragraph 5.10
(d) below. This will be done within the discretionary powers vested with the Branch 
16 | P a g e
Manager in the respective Grade/Scale for purchase of cheques/clean bills, in terms 
of the Scheme of Financial Powers – Advances and Allied Activities and is required 
to be reported to the next higher authority, for Control purpose. 
b) In case of outstation cheques, the facility will be restricted to one or more cheques 
for aggregate amount not exceeding ₹. 30,000/- at a time, ensuring that the 
liability on account of outstanding cheques purchased does not exceed ₹30,000/-
at any time, except in cases where credit facility against cheques to be purchased 
has been duly sanctioned by the competent authority.
 c) If a cheque/instrument for which immediate credit has been afforded is returned 
 unpaid, Bank shall recover interest at clean overdraft rate for the period Bank 
 remained out of funds and also cheque return charges, subject to the following:
i) Bank will charge interest from the date of credit of proceeds of the cheque in the
account till reimbursement/realization of the amount to/by the Bank. 
ii) Where the cheque is credited to a Savings Bank account, such credits will not be 
reckoned for interest purposes. For the purpose, the Branches will ensure 
recovery of interest credited/to be credited to the account on the amount of 
cheque returned unpaid for the period involved.
iii) If proceeds are credited in an overdraft/loan account, interest would be recovered
at applicable rate/clean overdraft rate, whichever is higher, on the amount of 
returned cheque/instrument.
5.9.II Purchase of Local Cheques, Drafts, etc., during suspension of clearing:
 Whenever clearing is suspended and it is apprehended that the suspension may be 
prolonged, branches may temporarily accommodate their constituents, both 
borrowers and depositors, to the extent possible by purchasing the local cheques, 
drafts, etc., deposited in their accounts for collection, special consideration being 
shown in respect of cheques drawn by government departments/companies of good 
standing and repute, as also demand drafts drawn on local banks. While extending 
this facility, branches would no doubt take into consideration such factors as 
creditworthiness, integrity, past dealings and occupation of the constituents, so as to 
17 | P a g e
guard themselves against any possibility of such instruments being dishonoured 
subsequently. 
5.10 INSTRUMENTS DRAWN ON OUR LOCAL AND OUTSTATION BRANCHES:
a) Cheques drawn on Bank’s own branches, at local or at outstation centres, except Govt. 
Cheques, Banker's Cheques, RBI cheques, received across the counter or through 
Drop-Box are not required to be presented in clearing or purchased as DD. These 
instruments shall be disposed off at their end only, subject to ceiling for non-home 
payment after due scrutiny. For cheques received at non-home branch and drawn for 
amount beyond the ceiling printed on the cheque to be sent out on collection as SC.
The instruments will be paid by the receiving branches at their end after verifying the 
genuineness of the instruments and observing all necessary precautions for payment 
of instruments, who will afford credit directly to the payee’s account. 
b) Cheques drawn on any branch of our Bank, locally or outstation, will normally be 
paid on the same day/next day, depending upon the local situations, barring a few 
exceptional circumstances, for example – insufficient balance, non-availability of 
drawing power/limit, uncleared balance, cheque number not matching with the 
cheque range in the system, same cheque number already paid, difference in 
signature, any lien/stop/hold restrictions (statutory, regulatory or otherwise) marked 
on the account.
c) The facility of immediate credit will be provided by the branch to the satisfactorily 
conducted accounts of their customers in respect of instruments drawn on any of our 
branches.
d) For the purpose, a satisfactorily conducted account shall be one which has been:
i) Opened at least six months earlier to the date of depositing cheque for 
realization and fully complies with KYC documentation requirements.
ii) Is not inoperative.
iii) Where branch has not noticed any irregular dealings/ suspicious transactions 
in the last 6 months. 
18 | P a g e
iv) Where the branch has not experienced any difficulty in recovery of any amount 
advanced in the past, including cheques returned unpaid after giving credit. 
v) Where no adverse features attached to the account/account holders have been 
brought to the notice of the Bank.
vi) Where no cheques/ instruments for which immediate credit was afforded, had 
been returned unpaid for financial reason.
e) The facility will be available to all individual deposit account holders, without making a 
distinction about the type of their accounts, i.e. Savings Bank/Current Account etc. It 
will also be available at all branches/extension counters of the Bank. This will not be 
available to non-individual account holders.
f) Branches will, on their own, afford immediate credit of outstation cheques of other 
banks too up to and inclusive of ₹.30,000/- (Rupees thirty thousand only) tendered for 
collection by their customers.
g) The facility of immediate credit would however not be applicable to cheques collected 
under speed clearing arrangements.
5.11 INSTRUMENTS DRAWN ON OUTSTATION BRANCHES OF OTHER BANKS:
a) Cheques drawn on other banks at outstation centres in India will normally be collected 
through our own branches at those centres. Where the Bank does not have a branch 
of its own, the instrument would be directly sent for collection to the drawee bank. 
b) All “CTS-2010 Standard” Cheques and other Negotiable Instruments (CTS compliant), 
payable outstation on any banks, would be presented by the branches linked to 
respective CTS-Grid through the grid based clearing system (Chennai, Mumbai and 
Delhi Grids).
 6. TIME FRAME FOR COLLECTION OF OUTSTATION INSTRUMENTS:
6.1 With the leverage of CBS and upgradation of technology and introduction of Speed 
Clearing System/CTS-grid based Clearing at MICR centre, the time frame for 
collection of outstations cheques for SBI branches/ other banks will be as per 
19 | P a g e
normal clearing cycle at the respective centre and for all other centres, the time 
frame for collection of cheques/ instruments payable in India is as under:
SBI Branches* Branches
of Other Banks
a) Collections between Metropolitan
Centres/ Major ‘A’ Class Cities (Mumbai,
Chennai, Kolkata, New Delhi,
Ahmedabad, Bangalore & Hyderabad)
6 days 7 days
b) Collections between places at (a) above
and State Capitals (other than North Eastern 
States & Sikkim) and Area I Cities, i.e. 
Pune, Nagpur, Kanpur, Surat, 
Vishakhapatnam, Vadodara, Kochi, 
Indore, Ludhiana, Coimbatore, Agra, 
Madurai and Varanasi
8 days 10 days
c) Collections between all other Centres 10 days 14 days
 *For Cheques drawn for the amount beyond the ceiling printed on cheque and 
cheques drawn on the branches within the CTS Grid.
6.2 The time frame mentioned above is the outer limits and once the instruments are 
realised, proceeds should be credited to the Customer’s account immediately.
6.3 Outstation cheques will be paid subject to recovery of applicable service charges, 
plus GST.
6.4 The time limit for collection of cheques/instruments payable in foreign countries 
has been mentioned separately in the Policy, under para 9. 
6.5 There is no change in the accounting procedure for DDP in respect of cases where 
instruments will continue to be purchased by debit to General Ledger 
Account/Customer’s Liability account and sent for realization to the Drawee bank.
7. INTEREST PAYMENT FOR DELAYED COLLECTION:
7.1 As part of the Compensation Policy, the Bank will pay interest to its customer on 
the amount of collection instruments under 6.1 a), b) and c) given above, in case 
there is delay in giving credit beyond the time period mentioned above. Such 
interest shall be paid without any demand from customers in all types of accounts. 
20 | P a g e
7.2 Interest for delayed collection shall be paid at the following rates:
a) For collection of cheques drawn on SBI, Saving Bank rate for the period of delay 
beyond 6/8 days for 6.1 a)/b) and 10 days for 6.1 c), interest will be payable from 
7
th/9th day for the centres under a) & b) and from 11th day for centres under c).
b) Saving Bank rate for the period of delay beyond 7/10/14 days, as the case may be
and for collection of outstation cheques drawn on other banks, i.e. the interest will 
be payable from 8th/11th/15th day.
c) Where the period of delay is beyond 14 days, interest will be paid at the rate 
applicable for term deposit for the corresponding period or Saving Bank rate, 
whichever is higher.
d) In case of extraordinary delay, i.e. delays exceeding 90 days, interest will be paid 
at the rate of 2% above the corresponding Term Deposit rate.
e) In the event of the proceeds of cheque under collection to be credited to an 
overdraft / loan account of the customer, interest will be paid at the rate applicable 
to the loan account. For extraordinary delays, i.e. delays exceeding 90 days, interest 
will be paid at the rate of 2% above the rate applicable to the loan account.
7.3 Interest as above shall be payable with a minimum of ₹25/-.
8. CHEQUES / INSTRUMENTS LOST IN TRANSIT / IN CLEARING PROCESS 
OR AT PAYING BANK’S BRANCH:
8.1 In the event of a cheque/instrument accepted for collection being lost in transit or 
in the clearing process or at the paying bank’s branch, the Bank shall immediately, 
on coming to know about the loss of instrument, bring the same to the notice of 
the account holder, so that the drawer can be informed to record stop payment. 
The branch will take care that cheques, if any, issued by the customer are returned 
with specific remarks and not just dishonoured as a routine due to non-credit 
of the amount of the lost cheques/instruments. The Bank would also advise the 
drawee bank all the particulars of lost cheque / instrument for exercising caution 
21 | P a g e
and provide all assistance to the customer in obtaining a duplicate instrument from 
the drawer of the cheque. 
8.2 Where a cheque/instrument is claimed to have been deposited by the customer in 
Drop-Box, but Bank’s records do not show receipt of such cheque with the Bank, 
the Bank cannot decide on the compensation amount for lost cheque in the 
absence of details of cheque like date, amount, drawee bank/branch/drawee 
centre etc. In such cases, the customer will have to corroborate a claim for lost 
cheque with full facts, inter-alia, including confirmation/enquiries from the drawee 
person/drawee bank about genuineness of the claim and on this basis if it is 
established that the customer has, in fact, tendered the cheque in Drop-Box, the 
Bank will consider payment of compensation in terms of the SBI Compensation 
Policy.
8.3 In line with the Compensation Policy of the Bank, the Bank will compensate the 
account-holder in respect of instruments lost in transit in the following way:
 a) In the event a cheque or instrument accepted for collection is lost in transit or in 
clearing process or lost by the service provider (in case of CMP) the Bank shall 
immediately on coming to know of the loss of instrument, bring the same to the 
notice of the account holder as brought out under para 8.1 herein above. The 
bank would provide assistance to the customer to obtain a duplicate instrument 
from the drawer of the cheque.
 b) In case intimation regarding loss of instrument is conveyed to the customer beyond 
the time limit stipulated for collection as per the Cheque Collection Policy of the 
Bank (7/10/14 days, as the case may be), interest will be paid for the period 
beyond the stipulated collection period at the rates specified in para 7.2 & 7.3 
above for cheques payable in India.
i) Bank will pay interest on the amount of the cheque for a further period of 15 days
at Savings Bank rate to provide for possible further delay in obtaining duplicate 
22 | P a g e
duplicate cheque /instrument and collection thereof.
ii) The Bank would also compensate the customer for reasonable charges which 
he/she incurs in getting duplicate cheque/instrument upon production of receipt, 
in the event the instrument is to be obtained from a Bank/institution who would 
charge a fee for issue of duplicate instrument, subject to a maximum of ₹ 250/-.
9. COLLECTION OF INTERNATIONAL CHEQUES/ INSTRUMENTS:
 
9.1 The Bank handles, on behalf of its customers, at all its branches, 
collection of cheques drawn in various foreign currencies and payable at 
various foreign centers. The bulk of the collection instruments are: -
a) Foreign currency cheques {including Travellers Cheques (TCs) & Money order
(MO)} drawn on / payable in the country of the foreign currency (viz. $ in 
USA, £ in UK, € in Euro Zone and so on) and also drawn on countries other 
than the country of particular currency viz. US$ cheques payable outside USA.
b) It is clarified that Travelers cheques issued by various Banks/Entities in various 
currencies will continue to be paid (by collection & purchase) at 
designated branches as per bilateral arrangements in place, as advised by 
Global Markets (Foreign Department), Kolkata, from time to time.
9.2 Accordingly, the Policy for International Cheque Collection shall cover the following 
aspects:
i) Type of settlement process in foreign countries for collection of cheques.
ii) Arrangement for collection of cheques/instruments.
iii) Time–frame for collection of cheques.
iv) Interest payment for delayed collection.
v) Collection instruments lost in transit.
9.3 Settlement Process in Foreign Countries for collection of cheque:
 Collection of cheques at various foreign centers differs vastly from the process 
 prevalent in India, both in advanced markets, developing countries and also from 
23 | P a g e
 country to country within these two sub-groups. In some of the markets, clearing 
 / settlement system can take more than 1 day, i.e. 2-4 days for return clearing and 
 therefore, for final funds settlement. Further, in some countries like USA, the recall
 of funds from the collecting banker can occur even after the time for return clearing 
 for an undefined period, in cases where National Clearing involves more than one 
 Fed Zone. Further, as per Section-15 chapter 2g, paragraph – 3 of “Manual of 
 Forex Operations”, updates as on 31.03.2018, in the event of any USD cheque 
 returned for any reason, in terms of Check 21 Act of USA, we may receive an image 
 of the returned legal cheque including a paper copy of cheque image or a return
 substitute cheque instead of a return original paper cheque. There are also 
 countries like Germany where cheques are no more the preferred mode of
 payments (replaced by online payments) and clearing takes place on a weekly basis. 
 Cooling period of foreign currency cheques (FCC) collection, as per arrangements 
 made by Global Link Services (GLS) for FCC denominated in US$, Euro €, GB £,
 CAN $ is as under: 
Instruments for collection Cooling Period
US $ Cheques payable in USA 10 Working days
Travellers Cheque, Money Order, Gift Cheques in US $ 10 Working days
Euro payable in 10 countries 
(Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, 
Netherland, Portugal, Spain & United Kingdom).
11 Working days
GBP payable in UK 14 Working days.
CAD less than CAD10000/- 13 Working days.
CAD 10000/- and above NIL,
But holding period 
of 60 days.
Other Currencies 21 days.
9.4 Arrangement for collection of foreign cheques/instruments: -
a) We have a network of branches, linked branches and Global Link Services (GLS)/ 
International Service Branch Ernakulam (ISBE), Departments of International 
Banking Group (IBG). GLS/ISBE use services of different correspondent banks with 
24 | P a g e
large volumes, robust systems, suitable technology back up and country specific 
strengths to provide efficient service at competitive prices. Different Correspondent 
Banks are able to offer varied customized products to us for risk reduction, quicker 
collection, improved reconciliation etc. at various prices. When FCNR (B)/NRE TDR 
deposit receipt is to be issued against proceeds of FC cheques collected, Branches 
have to ensure that: 
i) FCNR (B)/ NRE TDR Receipt should be mailed / handed over to the 
depositor only after the cooling period is over.
ii) As no protection against frauds on the face of cheques is available in such 
cases (a recall is possible within 1 year or more), the facility of loans, etc. 
against such deposits should be extended only where branches are satisfied 
with the bonafides of the transaction and availability of recourse, if required.
iii) Value date of FCNR(B)/NRE TDR will be the date of credit in NOSTRO a/c.
b) The USD, GBP, CAD & EURO cheques drawn on banks in USA, UK, CANADA and
European countries respectively are accepted by Global Link Service, Mumbai/ 
International Service Branch, Ernakulam for collection. Cheques on these currencies 
drawn elsewhere as well as cheques of other currencies are required to be sent 
directly to the drawee bank with clear instructions for remittance of proceeds to the 
Banks’ account maintained with foreign offices/correspondent banks.
9.5 Immediate credit of cheques to deposit accounts of individuals:-
a) Authorised branches of the Bank will offer immediate credit of cheques drawn in 
foreign currency for satisfactorily conducted accounts complying with KYC norms where 
they are satisfied with the scope for recourse, if required, and the customers are willing 
to pay the cheque purchase charges. In value terms, cheque purchases for issue of Rupee 
TDRs may be authorized by Managers/Branch Managers in Scale III/IV incumbencies for 
a Rupee equivalent up to ₹ 50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only) and by AGM branch/ 
AGM Region for higher values in satisfactorily conducted accounts, subject to their 
25 | P a g e
discretionary power. In all other cases, the discretionary power to purchase cheques, in 
aggregate for a customer, will be as per the laid down financial powers for clean 
instruments, subject to usual reporting to the next higher authority.
b) If a cheque/instrument, for which immediate credit has been afforded, is returned 
unpaid, the Bank shall recover interest at clean overdraft rate for the period the Bank 
remained out of funds and also cheque return charges and exchange loss, if any, subject 
to the following:
i. The Bank will charge interest from the date of credit of proceeds of the cheques 
in the account till reimbursement of money to the Bank.
ii. Where the cheque is credited to a Savings Bank account, such credits will not 
be reckoned for interest purposes if the cheque is returned.
iii. If proceeds are credited in an overdraft/loan account, interest would be 
recovered at applicable rate/clean overdraft rate, whichever is higher, on the
amount of returned cheques/instruments. 
9.6 Time Frame for collection of instruments:- 
 The time frame is from the date of deposit of a cheque/instrument at a branch to the 
date of credit to the customer’s account, will be 10 days after the completion of cooling 
period for the respective currencies. Cooling period starts from the date of credit to
our NOSTRO account. However, the total time frame for the entire collection process 
will not be exceeding 45 days from the date of deposit of cheques / instruments except 
for the cheques / instruments in CAD for 10000/- & above, where it will be 10 days 
from credit to NOSTRO account.
9.7 Interest payment for delayed collection: - 
a) Delay in collection of cheques payable at foreign centres will be construed if the 
customer’s account is not credited within the time frame as mentioned in paragraph 
9.6. 
b) The Bank however, will not compensate the customer for delays in collection of 
cheques drawn on banks in foreign countries as the bank would not be able to 
ensure timely credit from overseas banks. It is the bank’s experience that time for 
26 | P a g e
collection of instruments drawn on banks in foreign countries differs from country to 
country and even within a country, from place to place. The time norms for return of 
instruments cleared provisionally also vary from country to country. 
c) For the sake of uniformity and clarity, the date of Clear Credit is defined as the 
 date on which clear funds are available in our Nostro Account after an actual or 
 notional cooling period – for actual credit to customers’ account as per Bank’s 
 agreement with the concerned Correspondent Bank. Wherever there is no specific 
 agreement on the cooling period or the funds are directly collected from a paying 
 bank, the Clear Credit Date will be after observing a cooling period, as per the
 discretion of the Bank, for that specific currency/country/clearing system, from 
 the date of actual credit to Bank’s Nostro Account.
d) The compensation on account of delay in collection of instruments in foreign 
 currency will be paid in Indian Rupee, as illustrated below: 
i) At Savings Bank rate from the date of credit to Nostro Account till the date of 
payment if the period of delay is beyond prescribed collection period:
Description Date
Date of NOSTRO A/C credit 01.08.2021
Add 15 days cooling period 16.08.2021
To be paid within 10 days 26.08.2021 (No delay)
Delayed interest payment, if proceeds are not credited within 26.08.2021. The 
date of delay will be counted from the date NOSTRO a/c credited to the date of 
credit to the account (excluding credit date) i.e. payment after 26th Aug., will 
entitle payment of interest from 1st Aug, 2021 till the date of payment upto 45 
days from 26th Aug, 2021.
ii) In case of abnormal delay, i.e. delays exceeding 45 days, interest will be 
paid at Term deposit rate applicable for the period and for delays beyond 90 days, 
2% above the applicable term deposit rate.
27 | P a g e
In the above example delay exceeding 45 days (beyond 26/08/21) will be,
if not paid till 10th Oct, 2021.
Delay/ Abnormal delay Delayed interest @
>45 days to 90 days TDR rate.
>90 days 2% above TDR rate.
iii) In the event of the proceeds of cheque under collection being required to be 
credited to an overdraft / loan account of the customer, interest will be paid at the 
rate applicable to the loan account, if the delay is less than 45 days. For abnormal 
delays, i.e. beyond 45 days, interest will be paid at the rate of 2 % above the 
applicable interest rate to the loan account. 
iv) Such interest shall be payable with a minimum of ₹ 25/-. 
e) Compensation as detailed above shall be paid without any formal demand from
customers.
e) No separate compensation is payable by the Bank on account of movement in the 
Exchange rate of the respective currencies.
g) Returning time for dishonoured cheques
 The dishonoured instruments are required to be returned / dispatched to the branches
i.e by registered post, speed-post on receipt of the legal copy (if any) from the 
Correspondent Banks. 
h) International Cheques/instruments lost in transit/in clearing process :
In the event, an international cheque or an instrument accepted for collection is lost
 in transit or in the clearing process, the Bank shall, immediately on coming to know
of the loss of an instrument, bring the same to the notice of the account holder so
that the drawer can be informed to record stop payment. The Bank would also advise
the correspondent/ drawee bank all particulars of lost cheques / instruments for
exercising caution and provide all assistance to the customer in obtaining a duplicate
instrument from the drawer of the cheques, if required. The Bank will endeavour to
get payment of the instrument based on the photocopy/scanned image of the
28 | P a g e
instrument, wherever the practice is prevalent. The Bank will bear the actual charges
of recording Stop Payment instructions levied by drawee bank. The Bank will also
reimburse the customer with actual charges levied by the drawer / bank in issuing
duplicate cheques/instrument, subject to a maximum of ₹250/-.
10. General points for collection of cheque:
10.1 Both the drop box facility and the facility for the acknowledgement of the cheques 
at regular collection counters should be available to the customers and no branch 
should refuse to give an acknowledgement if the customer tenders the cheques at 
the counters.
10.2 Branch should ensure that customers are not compelled to drop the cheques in 
the drop-box.
10.3 Further, in the context of customer awareness in this regard, branch should 
invariably display on the cheque drop box itself that “customer can also tender the 
cheques at the counter and obtain acknowledgement on the pay-in-slips”. The 
above message is required to be displayed in English, Hindi and the concerned 
regional language of the State.
10.4 Branches are also advised to make absolutely fool proof arrangement accounting 
for the number of instruments each time the box is opened so that there is no 
dispute and the customer’s interest is not compromised.
10.5 Branches shall not decline to accept outstation cheques deposited by its customers 
for collection.
10.6 Branches shall give wide publicity to the CCP by prominently displaying salient 
features thereof in bold and visible letters on the notice board at their branches.
10.7 A copy of the complete CCP shall be made available by the Branch Manager, if the 
customer requires so.
10.8 DISCRETIONARY POWER FOR PURCHASE OF CHEQUES:
Branches should refer Bank’s Delegation of Financial Power for Unsecured 
advances in the respective grade/scale, for purchase of cheques, revised from time 
to time. 
29 | P a g e
11. POLICY FOR DEALING WITH INICIDENTS OF FREQUENT DISHONOUR 
 OF CHEQUES AND FAILED NACH:
11.1 Returning time for dishonoured cheques:
The dishonoured instruments are required to be returned / dispatched to the customer 
by registered post, speed-post, courier promptly without any delay in any case within
T+1 working days of the dishonour.
11.2 Procedure for return/dispatch of dishonoured cheques:
a) The collecting branch should return dishonoured cheques presented through clearing 
houses, strictly as per the return discipline prescribed for respective clearing house 
in terms of Uniform Regulations and Rules for Bankers' Clearing Houses. The 
collecting branch on receipt of such dishonoured cheques should dispatch it 
immediately to the payee/account holder within T+1 working days of receipt of the 
instruments. The Customer will be informed by automated SMS over registered 
mobile number about returning of cheque. 
b) In relation to cheques presented directly to the drawee branch across the counter for 
settlement of transaction by way of transfer between two accounts of the same 
branch / inter–branch, branch should return such dishonoured cheques to the 
payees/ holders same day/or next day, in case of dishonour due to insufficiency of 
fund.
c) Cheques dishonoured for want of funds in respect of all accounts should be returned 
along with a memo indicating therein the reason for dishonour as "insufficient funds".
d) Cheques returned should be entered in “Cheques Referred and Returned e-Register” 
available at SBI Times>Single Sign On>Branch e-Register>Registers>Cheque 
Referred and Returned Register.
11.3 Dealing with frequent dishonour of Cheques/ Failed NACH:
a) With a view to enforce financial discipline among the customers, a condition for 
operation of Savings Bank/ Current Account (SB/CA) account with cheque facility will 
be incorporated that in the event of failed Standing Instruction for Loan 
30 | P a g e
Repayment/dishonour of a cheque/NACH due to lack of funds/insufficient funds
drawn on a particular account of the drawer on 4 occasions during the financial year, 
no fresh cheque book would be issued from any of the channels. In case of 
unintended dishonour of cheques, the branch concerned will analyse such cases so 
as to ensure that it does not result into penalising the customer for such unintended 
dishonour of cheques. 
b) The branch may consider closing Savings Bank account/Current account at its 
discretion, after proper notice to the customer recording the reason of closure of 
account with reporting to Controller at monthly intervals. However, in respect of 
advances accounts such as cash credit account, overdraft account, the accounts may 
be treated as stressed accounts and dealt with accordingly. The decision for issuance 
of cheque book and/ or continuation of credit facilities may be taken by the 
sanctioning authority.
c) For the purposes of introduction of the condition mentioned at (a) and (b) above in 
relation to operation of the existing accounts, branch may, at the time of issuing new 
cheque book, obtain a letter from the constituents regarding acceptance of the new 
condition for operation of account. In case, request for issuance of cheque book is 
raised through INB/CINB, the system will be amended to make provision for accepting 
the conditions before final submission. The condition may also be incorporated in 
the Account Opening Forms as declaration from the constituent.
d) If a cheque is dishonoured for a 3rd time during a financial year in respect of cheques 
mentioned in para (a) above on a particular account of the drawer, a system 
generated Cautionary Advice will be sent to the concerned constituent by SMS on his 
registered mobile number or email and also a system generated letter on his recorded 
address drawing his/her/their attention to aforesaid conditions, advising 
him/her/them about the consequential stoppage of cheque facility in the event of 
cheque being dishonoured on next occasion on the same account during the financial 
year. 
e) If an account is having cheque book facility and NACH mandate is also registered, 
then the incidents of dishonour will be taken into account for both dishonour of 
31 | P a g e
cheque and failed NACH for computing the number of dishonour of cheques and 
failed NACH.
f) Branch may consider closing the account after serving 30 days notice to the customer 
in the event of subsequent dishonour of cheque/ NACH mandate in the account.
g) For follow up, the details of system generated e-mails/SMS/Letters to Customers will 
be placed in Branch Report Folder.
h) Weekly and monthly MIS reports (as a part of CBS reports) containing extract of all 
incidents of cheque/NACH dishonored for 3rd time and 4th time, in a financial year will 
be generated by CBS and sent to the Controllers as per format given in Ann. III, 
IV&V. Controllers will follow up with the branches and submit compliance report at 
quarterly intervals to DGM (B&O), for onward submission to LHO.
11.4 Dishonour of NACH (Debit) Mandate: 
(Section 25 of the Payment and Settlement System Act 2007)
a) National Automated Clearing House (NACH) is a payment system operated by 
National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on the lines of ECS, where 
Corporations and Banks are members. The physical mandates are obtained by 
Corporates/ Sponsor Banks and sent to NPCI through Mandate Management System 
(MMS). The destination Banks receive the mandates through MMS and authorise 
the same in their CBS. On the strength of the mandates, the future debits are raised
by Sponsor Banks. Acceptance of ECS mandates is now stopped by Banks and only 
NACH mandates are accepted. As ECS system is migrated to NACH by RBI.
b) As per Section 25 of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, where an 
electronic funds transfer initiated by a person from an account maintained by him 
cannot be executed on the ground that the amount of money standing to the credit 
of that account is insufficient to honour the transfer instruction or that it exceeds
the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with a
bank, there is provision to prosecute such person as per the above Act.
c) The above Act accords the same rights and remedies to the payee (beneficiary)
against dishonour of electronic fund transfer instructions under insufficiency of funds 
32 | P a g e
as are available under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. considering 
the protection available, there is no need to obtain additional cheques, if any, from 
customers in addition to ACH Debit mandates.
d) NPCI has further advised that as migration of ECS to NACH has been completed at 
all locations across India, banks should not accept PDC or Security PDC from its 
customer and all existing PDCs/Security PDCs may be converted into NACH (Debit) 
Mandates.
e) RACPCs/RACCs/SMECCs/SECCs/Branches/ Other BPR outfits who have accepted 
PDCs/Security PDCs from customers are advised to convert all such PDCs to NACH 
(Debit) mandates and ensure that they accept only NACH (Debit) mandates and not 
PDCs from customers in future.
f) Procedure for handling failed NACH:
i) If a Destination Branch (the bank branches where the Destination Account 
holders maintain their bank account from which NACH utility payments are 
debited.) is not in a position to debit a particular transaction for insufficiency 
of funds, it should report the same with a Return Reason to the Service 
Branch/Main Branch on the same day with the details of failed NACH, in any 
case not later than T+1 working days of the returned /undebited processed in 
the Clearing House.
ii) NACH inward transactions are presently processed centrally at NACH Branch 
Mumbai. In case of return of NACH transaction, a return file is generated at 
NPCI and the Sponsor Bank will give the return memo to customer on the 
strength of return reason code in return file.
g) It would be the responsibility of the Sponsor Bank (Branch) (refer to the
bank/branch which had agreed to act as the agent of the User company i.e. utilitycompanies, insurance/corporations/Collection Service Provider/ Govt. departments, or 
33 | P a g e
any institution receiving/collecting payments from a large number of branches/ credit 
banker etc) to advise the User regarding failed NACH.
h) If a User makes use of NACH mechanism for receiving payment from the same set of 
beneficiaries every quarter/month or at more frequent intervals, and there is
frequent return of debit NACH, in such cases, after return of the NACH, the Sponsor 
Bank has the responsibility to intimate the User in addition to the Destination Account 
Holders regarding termination of NACH mandate.
i) In case of failed NACH due to insufficiency of funds, a communication from the 
Destination branch is to be sent to the customer (Destination Account Holder) 
intimating him that in case of failed NACH for 4 times in a financial year or otherwise, 
the branch at its sole discretion may advise the sponsor bank/branch for cancellation 
of all mandates given for the particular account in case of SB/CA, whereas for Cash 
Credit accounts, a review may be put up to appropriate authority higher than the 
sanctioning authority in the matter. The branch should also send the caution memo 
after 3
rdNACH failure in a financial year to the concerned User of NACH for whom the 
NACH was registered.
j) Branch may consider for closing of account after serving 30 days’ notice to the 
customer after subsequent NACH failure, even though the account is not having any 
cheque book facility and only NACH has been registered.
k) Branch has to ensure compliance of above procedure so that no laxity is allowed in 
delayed reporting of such failed NACH. In case of any findings of such circumstances 
and non- compliance / non-adherence of instructions/ guidelines stated hereinabove, 
suitable disciplinary action will be initiated against the erring staff as per the service 
conditions governing them.
l) Information / documentary proof of failed NACH should be provided, if requisitioned 
by any court/consumer forum.
34 | P a g e
11.5 Information on Dishonoured Cheques/ Failed NACH:
a) Data in respect of each dishonoured cheque for amount of ₹1 crore and above, and 
below ₹1 crore and all cheques drawn in favour of stock exchanges should be made 
part of bank's MIS on constituents and concerned branches should report such data 
cheque wise & account wise to their respective controller separately.
b) Data in respect of all failed NACH should be made part of Bank’s MIS on constituents 
and concerned branch should report to their respective controllers.
c) Reporting: The information is to be reported to the Controller on respective format 
as per Annexure- III, IV & V. Branches/ AOs will send such consolidated report to LHO
at quarterly intervals.
11.6 Framing Appropriate Procedure for Dealing with Dishonoured Cheques:
a) The appropriate procedure for dealing with dishonoured cheques have been devised 
with inherent preventive measures and checks to prevent any scope for collusion of 
the staff of the bank or any other person, with the drawer of the cheque for causing 
delay in or withholding the communication of the fact of dishonour of the cheque to 
the payee/ holder or the return of such dishonoured cheque to him.
b) For the purpose of recording dishonour status of the cheque, every cheque received 
at the paying branch /clearing CPCs/Service Branch must be recorded in the system, 
whether balance is available in the account or not and in no case, it should be returned 
without referring cheques to the “Cheque referred & returned Register” where cheque 
is being returned for insufficient balance in the account.
c) Branches/CPCs will clear the cheques on the basis of clear balance available at the 
time of presentation. In no case, return of cheques at paying branch/Clearing 
CPCs/Service Branch should be withheld till deposit of suitable balance by account 
holder /party concerned to meet the fund requirement of the cheque.
d) Branches/ Controllers has to ensure compliance of above procedure so that no laxity 
is adopted / no internal collusion of staff in concealing the dishonour of the cheque or 
35 | P a g e
delayed reporting/returning of the cheque. In the event of finding of any such 
circumstance, the internal guidelines for dealing with staff accountability for dereliction 
in duty by the staff will be dealt with. Accordingly, Officers and staff should be cautious 
enough to adhere to such guidelines and ensure strict compliance thereof to achieve 
aforesaid objective of effective communication and delivery of dishonoured cheque to 
the payee.
e) Reports relating to cheques issued by VIP/Priority customers and presented in CTS 
clearing will be available to CPCs/Branches under CDC report folder by 10am every 
day. CCPC Head to verify the report containing list of VIP Customers on daily basis 
and decide on the action to be taken well before return cut off time. In case of report 
on the list of Priority Customers, a suitable official at CCPC should be assigned the 
task of verifying the list on daily basis and take a decision as to honour or return the 
cheque before return cut off time.
11.7 Recovery of Service Charges on dishonour of Cheque/NACH
 Recovery of such charges will be ensured as per extant instructions on Service 
Charges in force. Returning of Cheque over the counter will also be recorded in the 
system as rejected transaction and applicable service charges will be levied.
11.8 For the purpose of adducing evidence to prove the fact of dishonour of cheque 
 on behalf of a complainant (i.e. payee / holder of a dishonoured cheque) in any
 proceeding relating to dishonoured cheque before a court, consumer forum or any 
 other competent authority, branch should extend full co-operation, and should 
 furnish him/her documentary proof of the fact of dishonour of cheque(s).
12. Amendment/Modification of the Policy:
 The Bank reserves the right to amend/modify this Policy, as and when deemed fit 
 and proper, at its sole discretion. The Policy will be reviewed once in two years or 
36 | P a g e
 as and when required. Any changes in between two reviews will be approved by MD 
(R&DB). Such changes will be incorporated in next review of policy.
13. Force Majeure:
 The Bank shall not be liable to pay to the customers under this Policy if some 
 unforeseen event, including but not limited to civil commotion, sabotage, lockout, 
 strike or other labour disturbances, accident, fire, natural disasters or other “Acts of 
 God", war, damage to the SBI's or its correspondent bank(s) systems, communication 
 channels etc. beyond the control of the SBI, prevents it from performing its 
obligations within the specified service delivery parameters. Claims, if any in this 
regard will be dealt with as per Bank’s Compensation Policy.
37 | P a g e
ANNEXURE -I
List of Reasons for dishonour of cheque:
(Applicable for instrument and image -based Cheque Clearing as detailed in Annexure D
to Uniform Regulations and Rules for Bankers’ Clearing Houses)
Code Reason for Return
01 Funds insufficient
02 Exceeds arrangement
03 Effects not cleared, present again
04 Refer to drawer
05 Kindly contact Drawer/Drawee Bank and please present again
10 Drawer’s signature incomplete
11 Drawer’s signature illegible
12 Drawer’s signature differs
13 Drawer’s signature required
14 Drawer’s signature not as per mandate
15 Drawer’s signature to operate account not received
16 Drawer’s authority to operate account not received
17 Alteration requires drawer’s authentication
20 Payment stopped by drawer
21 Payment stopped by attachment order
22 Payment stopped by court order
23 Withdrawal stopped owing to death of account holder
24 Withdrawal stopped owing to lunacy of account holder
25 Withdrawal stopped owing to insolvency of account holder
30 Instrument post dated
31 Instrument out dated/stale
32 Instrument undated/ without proper date
33 Instrument mutilated; requires Bank’s guarantee
34 Cheque irregularly drawn/ amount in words and figures differs
35 Clearing House stamp/ date required
36 Wrongly delivered/ Not drawn on us
37 Present in proper zone
38 Instrument contains extraneous matter
39 Image not clear, present again with paper
40 Present with document
41 Item listed twice
42 Paper not received
38 | P a g e
Code Reason for Return
50 Account closed
51 Account transferred to another branch
52 No such account
53 Title of account required
54 Title of account wrong/ incomplete
55 Account blocked (situation covered in 21-25)
60 Crossed to two banks
61 Crossing stamp not cancelled
62 Clearing stamp not cancelled
63 Instrument specially crossed to another bank
64 Amount in protective crossing incorrect
65 Amount in protective crossing required/illegible
66 Payee’s endorsement required
67 Payee’s endorsement irregular / requires collecting bank’s confirmation
68 Endorsement by mark/ thumb impression requires attestation by Magistrate
with seal
70 Advice not received
71 Amount /Name differs on advice
72 Drawee bank’s fund with sponsor bank insufficient
73 Payee’s separate discharge to bank required
74 Not payable till 1st proximo
75 Pay order/ cheque requires counter signature
76 Required information not legible/ correct
39 | P a g e
ANNEXURE -II
Illustrative but not exhaustive list of objections where customers are not at 
default
Code
No.
Reason for Return
33 Instrument mutilated; requires bank’s guarantee
35 Clearing House stamp/date required
36 Wrongly delivered/not drawn on us
37 Present in proper zone
38 Instrument contains extraneous matter
39 Image not clear; present again with paper
40 Present with document
41 Item listed twice
42 Paper not received
60 Crossed to two banks
61 Crossing stamp not cancelled
62 Clearing stamp not cancelled
63 Instrument specially crossed to another bank
67 Payee’s endorsement irregular/ requires collecting bank’s confirmation
68 Endorsement by mark/ thumb impression requires attestation by Magistrate with
seal.
70 Advice not received
71 Amount/ Name differs on advice
72 Drawee bank’s fund with sponsor bank insufficient (applicable to sub-Members)
73 Payee’s separate discharge to bank required
74 Not payable till 1st proximo
75 Pay order/cheque requires counter signature
76 Required information not legible/correct
80 Bank’s certificate ambiguous/incomplete/required
81 Draft lost by issuing office; confirmation required from issuing office
82 Bank/Branch blocked
83 Digital Certificate validation failure
84 Other reasons-connectivity failure
87 ‘Payee’s a/c Credited’-Stamp required
92 Bank excluded
40 | P a g e
Annexure-III
INFORMATION ON DISHONOURED CHEQUES
RETURN FOR THE QUARTER ENDED
A. DISHONOUR OF CHEQUES OF ₹1 CRORE AND ABOVE WITH THE REASON 
‘INSUFFICIENT FUNDS’.
Sl. 
No.
Date 
of 
Return
Cheque 
No.
Amount Drawer 
Name/AC.No.
Payee Collecting 
Bank/Branch
Paying 
Bank/Branch
Remarks
B. DISHONOUR OF CHEQUES OF BELOW ₹.1 CRORE WITH THE REASON 
‘INSUFFICIENT FUNDS’
Sl. 
No.
Date 
of 
Return
Cheque 
No.
Amount Drawer 
Name/AC.No.
Payee Collecting 
Bank/Branch
Paying 
Bank/Branch
Remarks
41 | P a g e
Annexure -IV
INFORMATION ON DISHONOURED CHEQUES 
RETURN FOR THE QUARTER ENDED
DISHONOUR OF CHEQUES IN FAVOUR OF STOCK EXCHANGES WITH THE 
REASON ‘INSUFFICIENT FUNDS’
Sl. 
No.
Date 
of 
Return
Cheque 
No.
Amount Drawer 
Name/AC.
No.
Payee Collecting 
Bank/Branch
Paying 
Bank/Branch
Remarks
Annexure-V
INFORMATION ON FAILED NACH / ECS TRANSACTIONS FOR THE QUARTER 
ENDED
Sl. 
No.
Date 
of 
Return
Customer 
Account
No.
Amount Drawer 
Name/AC.
No.
Payee Sponsor
Bank/
Branch
Destination
Branch
Remarks
42 | P a g e
Annexure VI