SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 1
INDEX
Sr. No. Description Page No
1 Background 3
2 States/Circles covered in Grid based CTS-2010 
centres
 4
3 Branches dealing with government business 
under CTS centres
5
4 Speed Clearing System 6
5 Instruments drawn on our local and outstation 
Branches
9-11
6 Instruments drawn on Outstation branches of 
Other Banks
11
7 Timeframe for collection of cheques 11
8 Time frame for collection of outstation 
Instruments
12-13
9 Interest payment for delayed collection 13
10 Cheques/Instruments lost in transit/ in Clearing
Process or at paying Bank’s branch
14
11 Collection of international Cheques/ Instruments 15-20
12 International Cheques/instruments lost in
transit/ in clearing process
20
13 Force Majeure 22
14 Reason for Return 23-25
15 Objections where customers are not at fault 26
16 Acronyms 2
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 2
Acronyms
BCSBI Banking Codes and Standards Board of India
CAD Canadian Dollar
CCP Cheque Collection Policy
CTS Cheque Truncation System
ECCS Express Cheque Clearing System
FCC Foreign Cheque Collection
GBP British Pound Sterling
GLS Global Link Services
IBA Indian Bank Association
KYC Know Your Customer
MO Money Order
P2F Paper to follow
RBI Reserve Bank of India
TC Travellers Cheque
URRBCH Uniform Rules and Regulations for Bankers’ Clearing 
House
USD United States Dollar
Own
Bank’s Cheque Cheque drawn on/ payable at branches of SBI
Other bank’s 
Cheques
Cheque drawn on/ payable at branches of other banks 
(other than SBI)
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 3
Annexure
STATE BANK OF INDIA
CHEQUE COLLECTION POLICY – 2017
1. PREAMBLE:
1.1. Bank's Cheque Collection Policy (CCP) was first formulated in 
2005 and is reviewed periodically, as per the guidelines issued by 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI)/IBA/BCSBI from time to time. The 
Policy duly approved by Bank’s Central Board shall be known as 
Bank’s Cheque Collection Policy -2017.
1.2. Bank’s Cheque Collection Policy-2017 has been formulated as a 
comprehensive document with transparency, covering various
aspects, taking into account our technological capabilities, 
systems and processes adopted for clearing arrangements and 
other internal arrangements for collection through different 
methods. The Policy takes adequate care to ensure that the 
interest of small depositors is fully protected and is in line with the 
IBA’s model policy on Collection of cheques/instruments. The 
procedure for collection of domestic cheques/instruments and 
international instruments have been included herein, which, inter 
alia, incorporates the following:
a) Established procedure for collection of Bank’s own cheques 
(local and outstation).
b) Collection of cheques from our branches and branches of other 
banks.
c) Reduced time frame for collection of outstation/local cheques
drawn on branches of the Bank
d) Penalty for delayed collection for local/outstation cheques in a 
progressive manner
e) Amounts of cheques upto which immediate credit is to be 
provided. 
1.3 Cheque clearing process under revised scenario of CTS 
based clearing system.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 4
1.3.1 The printing of IOI instruments is also now migrated on “CTS2010 standard” platform.
1.3.2 Cheque Truncation System (CTS) is presently working at 
Northern grid in Delhi, Southern Grid in Chennai and 
Western grid in Mumbai. 
1.3.3 States/Circles covered in Grid based CTS-2010 centres:
Northern grid in Delhi covers Bihar, Chandigarh, Delhi, Haryana, 
Jammu& Kashmir, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh & 
Uttarakhand states (Covering Chandigarh, Delhi, Lucknow, Jaipur
and Patna Circles). Centres covered are Agra, Amritsar, Allahabad, 
Bhilwara, Chandigarh, Dehradun, Delhi, Gorakhpur, Jaipur, 
Jalandhar, Jamshedpur, Jammu, Jodhpur, Kanpur, Kota, 
Lucknow, Ludhiana, Patna, Ranchi, Udaipur and Varanasi,
Southern grid in Chennai covers Andhra Pradesh, North Eastern 
States, Orissa, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamilnadu, Telangana & West 
Bengal states (covering Amaravati, Bangalore, Bhubaneswar, 
Chennai, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Thiruvananthapuram
circles). Centres covered are Bangalore, Belgaum, Bhubaneswar, 
Calicut, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuttack, Ernakulum, Erode, 
Guwahati, Hubli, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Madurai, Mangalore, 
Mysore, Pondicherry, Salem, Thirunelvelli, Tiruchirapalli, Tirupur, 
Trichur, Trivandrum, Vishakhapatnam and Vijayawada.
Western grid in Mumbai covers Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat,
Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra states (covering Ahmedabad, 
Bhopal and Mumbai Circles). Centres covered are Ahmedabad, 
Anand, Aurangabad, Bhavnagar, Bhopal, Gwalior, Indore, 
Jabalpur, Jamnagar, Kolhapur, Mumbai, Nagpur, Nasik, Pune, 
Panaji, Rajkot, Raipur, Solapur, Surat and Vadodara.
All centres covered under the same grid will be treated as a single 
clearing zone and cheques drawn on these centres and presented 
at any of the grid centres are treated as locally drawn cheques in
as much as no clearing charges would be applicable for such 
cheques.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 5
1.3.4 Separate clearing session was introduced in the three CTS grids
(Mumbai, Chennai and New Delhi) for clearing of such residual 
non-CTS-2010 cheques (including PDCs and EMI cheques) with 
effect from 1stJanuary 2014. This separate clearing session is now
operated once in a week (every Monday), from 1st November 
2014 onwards.
1.3.5 After introduction of these special sessions for non-CTS cheques, 
non-CTS cheques are not to be presented in CTS clearing/ 
session. If non-CTS cheques are presented in regular clearing 
session drawee bank will returns the non-CTS cheques with 
reason “37- present in proper zone”. These non-CTS cheques will 
have to be re-presented by the collecting bank in the immediate 
next special clearing session for non-CTS cheques.
1.3.6 RBI has directed that no changes/corrections should be carried 
out on the cheques. For any changes in the payee’s name, 
currency amount (amount in figures) or legal amount (amount in 
words) etc. fresh cheque forms should be used by customers. This 
will help Banks to identify and control fraudulent alterations. 
Collecting banks have to ensure that such cheques are not 
accepted for presentation in CTS. This is not applicable to cheques 
cleared under other clearing arrangements such as MICR clearing, 
non-MICR clearing, over the counter collection (for cash payment) 
or direct collection of cheques outside the Clearing House 
Arrangement.
1.3.7 Branches dealing with government business under CTS 
centres are required to update their CBS data in view of 
Govt P2F process :-
Account level ground work :- Get linked to respective CCPC by 
completing following activities for all State & Central Government 
Accounts maintained at the Branch :-
a. Capture signatures of Drawing & Disbursing Officers (DDOs) of 
respective Govt departments and upload the same in CBS.
b. Upload mandate / account operating instructions in CBS.
c. Allocate cheque series (existing or CTS compliant category) to 
the respective State / Central Government Account.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 6
d. Limits / LOCs are to be updated as per the instructions / 
requirements of the Government Account holder.
e. Ensure that Major-head / sub-head / supplementary-head for 
Central Government Accounts or State Govt. code / Focal Point 
Branch code / C or S flag are defined correctly against each 
Central / State Government Account at the Branch.
1.4 Process for clearing at clearing centres: All Banks
participating at clearing centres have been provided with Express 
Cheque Clearing System (ECCS) software and a server is located 
at Clearing House, where all bank branches exchange their 
cheques and also submit the data of cheques presented in 
clearing to Clearing House by removable storage devices. The 
Clearing House has ECCS software of Clearing House module, 
which processes the data received from the member banks and 
generates Bankwise report and settlement report. The settlement 
bank makes settlement, based on the ECCS report in accounts 
maintained with the bank. All provisions of Uniform Rules and 
Regulations for Bankers’ Clearing House (URRBCH) issued by RBI 
are adhered to by the Clearing House.
1.5 Speed Clearing System: - Outstation cheques drawn on banks 
participating in speed clearing at specified locations will be 
collected and treated at par with local cheques. All terms and 
conditions applicable for local clearing instruments will also apply 
to speed clearing system, except that such cheques will be 
collected by the collecting bank against realization of service 
charges specified for the purpose. Speed Clearing System is 
applicable for both CTS-2010 grid based clearing system and nonCTS clearing system.
1.6 The list of objections for return of Instruments and Image based 
Cheque Clearing, as detailed in Annexure D to Uniform 
Regulations and Rules for Bankers’ Clearing House, has been 
placed as Annexure-I of this document.
1.7 Cheque return charges shall, however, be levied only in cases 
where the customer is at fault and is responsible for such returns. 
The list of reasons for return, where the customers are not at 
fault is as per Annexure-II.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 7
1.8 Cheques that need to be re-presented without any reference to 
the payee shall be presented in the immediate next presentation 
clearing, not later than 24 hours (excluding holidays). Notification 
will be sent to the customers for such re-presentation by SMS or 
email.
1.9 Dishonour /Return of cheques: Bank needs to mention the ‘Date 
of Return’ & sign/initial the Cheque Return Memo, giving therein a 
definite and valid reason for refusing payment as prescribed in 
Rule 6 of the Uniform Regulations and Rules for Bankers’ Clearing 
Houses (URRBCH). This will enable the holder of the instrument to 
have legal recourse against the drawer of the cheque. 
1.10 Collection of Third Party Cheques in clearing: RBI has prohibited 
Banks from crediting ‘account payee’ cheques to the account of 
any person other than the payee named therein. However, with a 
view to mitigating the difficulties faced by members of cooperative credit societies in collection of account payee cheques, 
RBI has permitted banks to collect for such societies account 
payee cheques drawn for an amount not exceeding Rs.50,000/-
on behalf of their constituents. 
1.11 Cheques deposited at branch counters and Cheques deposited in 
the drop-box within the branch premises, before the specified cutoff time, will be sent for clearance on same day, for which the 
clearance period will be T+1 working day. Cheques deposited 
after this cut off time will be sent for clearing on next day, for 
which clearance period will be T+2 working days.
1.11.1 The broad time–limit for receipt of cheques (say up to 3 hours 
after opening of branch, 1 hour before closure of business etc.), 
which may be finetuned for individual locations/branches, based 
on local practices, will be fixed by the Controllers of the respective 
branches. 
1.11.2 All drop-boxes shall clearly indicate the timeline as above upto 
which cheques dropped in the drop boxes would be sent for 
clearing on the same day.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 8
1.11.3 Cheques deposited after the cut-off time and in drop-boxes 
outside the branch premises including off-site ATMs will be 
presented in the next clearing cycle.
1.12 As a policy, Bank would give credit to the customer account on 
the same day after day’s clearing settlement takes place and will 
appear in book balance but would not be available for payment.
Withdrawal of amount so credited will be permitted as per the 
cheque return schedule of the clearing house.
1.13 The timeline for clearing of local cheques will be extended by two
additional days in case of branches having non-Sunday weekly off 
and also preceding working day in 2nd & 4th weekend also being 
holiday. It will be extended by one additional day only during 1st, 
3
rd & 5th week for branches working on Sunday.
1.14 Bank branches situated at centres where no clearing house exists, 
would present local cheques on drawee banks across the counter 
and proceeds thereof would be credited, at the earliest, on 
realization.
1.15 Normal collection charges applicable at the material time will be 
levied for local cheques not collected through clearing, 
irrespective of the amount of cheques.
1.16 SC/DDP automation has been implemented for collection of 
outstation cheques of other banks from centres where speed 
clearing system is not available.
1.17 In the case of collection of outstation cheques at centers, where 
the Speed Clearing System is not applicable, our collecting 
branches will levy 50% of their applicable charges for collection of 
outstation cheques. The drawee/ paying bank may also levy 50% 
of applicable charges.
1.18 Negotiation of local cheques/instruments drawn on other banks 
will not be permitted. Branch Managers may use their discretion in 
exceptional circumstances (business exigencies) to permit drawals 
against uncleared effects up to Rs. 30,000/- (Rupees thirty 
thousand only), in deposit accounts. The facility can be provided 
only on well conducted, KYC compliant accounts as mentioned in 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 9
paragraph 2.2.1 below. This will be done within the discretionary 
powers vested with the Branch Manager in the respective 
Grade/Scale, for purchase of cheques/ clean bills, in terms of 
Scheme of Financial Powers-Advances & Allied activities and is 
required to be reported to the next higher authority, for control 
purpose.
1.19 In case of outstation cheques, the facility will be restricted to one 
or more cheques for aggregate amount not exceeding Rs. 
30,000/- at a time, ensuring that the liability on account of 
outstanding cheques purchased does not exceed Rs. 30,000/- at 
any time, except in cases where credit facility against cheques to 
be purchased has been duly sanctioned by the competent 
authority.
1.20 If a cheque/instrument for which immediate credit has been 
afforded is returned unpaid, Bank shall recover interest at clean 
overdraft rate for the period Bank remained out of funds and also 
cheque return charges, subject to the following :-
a) Bank will charge interest from the date of credit of proceeds of 
the cheque in the account till reimbursement/realization of the 
amount to/by the Bank. 
b) Where the cheque is credited to a Savings Bank account, such 
credits will not be reckoned for interest purposes if the cheque is 
returned unpaid. For the purpose, the branches will ensure 
recovery of interest credited/ to be credited to the account on the 
amount of cheque returned unpaid for the period involved.
c) If proceeds are credited in an overdraft/loan account, interest 
would be recovered at applicable rate/clean overdraft rate, 
whichever is higher, on the amount of returned 
cheque/instrument.
2. INSTRUMENTS DRAWN ON OUR LOCAL AND OUTSTATION
BRANCHES:
Cheques drawn on Bank’s own branches, at local or at outstation 
centres, irrespective of amount and market/business segment, 
except Govt. Cheques, Banker's Cheques, RBI cheques, received 
across the counter or through Drop-Box are not required to be 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 10
presented in clearing or purchased as DD or sent out on collection 
as SC. These instruments shall be disposed of at their end only,
subject to ceiling for non-home payment as decided by the Bank & 
advised to branches from time to time. The instruments will be paid 
by the receiving branches at their end after verifying the 
genuineness of the instruments and observing all necessary 
precautions for payment of instruments, who will afford credit 
directly to the payee’s account.
2.1 Cheques drawn on any branch of the our Bank, locally or 
outstation, will normally be paid on the same day or next day, 
depending upon the local situations, barring a few exceptional 
circumstances, for example – insufficient balance, non-availability of 
drawing power, uncleared balance, cheque number not matching 
with the cheque range in the system, same cheque number already 
paid, difference in signature, any lien stop/hold restrictions 
(statutory, regulatory or otherwise), marked on the account, limit 
exceeding in case of loan account etc.
2.2 The facility of immediate credit will be provided by the branch to 
the satisfactorily conducted accounts (defined hereinafter in the 
Policy) of their customers in respect of instruments drawn on any of 
our branches.
2.2.1 For the purpose of this Policy, a satisfactorily conducted account 
shall be one which has been:-
i) Opened at least six months earlier to the date of depositing 
cheque for realization and fully complies with KYC 
documentation requirements.
ii) Is not inoperative.
iii) Where branch has not noticed any irregular dealings/ 
suspicious transactions in the last 6 months. 
iv) Where the branch has not experienced any difficulty in 
recovery of any amount advanced in the past, including 
cheques returned unpaid after giving credit. 
v) Where no adverse features attached to the account/account 
holders have been brought to the notice of the Bank.
vi) Where no cheques/ instruments for which immediate credit 
was afforded, had been returned unpaid for financial reason.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 11
2.2.2 The facility will be available to all individual deposit account 
holders, without making a distinction about the type of their 
accounts, i.e. Savings Bank/Current Account etc. It will also be 
available at all branches/extension counters of the Bank.
2.3 Branches will, on their own, afford immediate credit of outstation 
cheques of other banks too up to and inclusive of Rs.30,000/-
(Rupees thirty thousand only) tendered for collection by their 
customers
2.4 The facility of immediate credit would however not be applicable to 
cheques collected under speed clearing arrangements.
3 INSTRUMENTS DRAWN ON OUTSTATION BRANCHES OF 
OTHER BANKS:
3.1 Cheques drawn on other banks at outstation centres in India will 
normally be collected through our own branches at those centres. 
Where the Bank does not have a branch of its own, the instrument 
would be directly sent for collection to the drawee bank. 
3.2 All “CTS-2010 Standard” Cheques and other Negotiable Instruments 
(CTS compliant), payable outstation on any banks, would be 
presented by the branches linked to respective CTS-Grid through 
the grid based clearing system (Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi Grids).
3.3 As mentioned in para 1.3.4, processing of non-CTS cheques is now
done through a special clearing session in three CTS grid centres 
on weekly basis (every Monday) from 1st November, 2014 
onwards. 
3.4 Timeframe for collection of cheques :
Cheques drawn on branches of other banks located at State 
Capitals/Major “A” class Cities/other locations will be collected 
within 7/10/14 days respectively. If there is any delay in collection 
beyond this period, interest at the rate specified as per Para 5.2 
shall be paid without insisting/waiting for a request from the 
customer. Time-limit for collection specified by the Bank shall be 
treated as the outer limit and credit shall be afforded immediately, 
if the proceeds get collected earlier. 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 12
3.5 There is no change in the accounting procedure for DDP in respect 
of cases where instruments will continue to be purchased by debit 
to General Ledger Account/Customer’s Liability account and sent for 
realization to the Drawee bank.
3.6 Outstation cheques will be paid subject to recovery of usual service 
charges, plus service tax applicable, as per Bank’s extant 
instructions, but such charges shall not be more that the service 
charges prescribed by RBI for Outstation Collection Charges. No 
additional charges, P&T, Courier charges etc. will be recovered.
4. TIME FRAME FOR COLLECTION OF OUTSTATION 
INSTRUMENTS:
4.1 With the leverage of CBS, upgradation of technology and 
introduction of Speed Clearing System/CTS-grid based Clearing at
MICR centre, the time frame for collection of outstations cheques 
for SBI branches/ other banks will be as per normal clearing cycle 
at the respective centre. For all other centres, the time frame for 
collection of cheques/ instruments payable in India is as under:
SBI 
Branches*
Branches 
of Other 
Banks
a) Collections between 
Metropolitan Centres/ Major ‘A’ 
Class Cities (Mumbai, Chennai, 
Kolkata, New Delhi, 
Ahmedabad, Bangalore & 
Hyderabad)
:6 T+2 7 days
b) Collections between places at 
(a) above and State Capitals 
(other than North Eastern 
States & Sikkim) and Area I 
Cities, i.e. Pune, Nagpur, 
Kanpur, Surat, Vishakapatnam, 
Vadodara, Kochi, Indore, 
Ludhiana, Coimbatore, Agra, 
Madurai and Varanasi 
: T+2 10 days
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 13
c) Collections between all other 
Centres
: T+3 14 days
 * For cheques other than those drawn for the amount within the 
ceiling printed of the cheque and cheques drawn on the branches within 
the CTS Grid.
4.2 The timeframe mentioned above is the outer limit and once the 
instruments are realised, proceeds should be credited to the 
customer's account immediately.
4.3 The time limit for collection of cheques/instruments payable in 
foreign countries has been mentioned separately in the Policy,
under paragraph No.7.6.
5. INTEREST PAYMENT FOR DELAYED COLLECTION:
5.1. As part of the Compensation Policy, the Bank will pay interest to 
its customer on the amount of collection instruments under 4.1 a, 
b and c given above, in case there is delay in giving credit beyond 
the time period mentioned above. Such interest shall be paid 
without any demand from customers in all types of accounts. 
5.2 Interest for delayed collection shall be paid at the following rates:
a) For collection of Cheques drawn on SBI, Saving Bank rate for 
the period of delay beyond T+2 days 4.1 (a) & (b) and T+3 for 
4.1 (c), ( interest will be payable) from 4th day for the centres 
(a)& (b) and 5th day for the centre (c).
b) Saving Bank rate for the period of delay beyond 7/10/14 days, 
as the case may be, in collection of outstation cheques drawn 
on other banks, i.e. [the interest will be payable] from 8th /11th
/15th day.
c) Where the period of delay is beyond 14 days, interest will be 
paid at the rate applicable for term deposit for the 
corresponding period or Saving Bank rate, whichever is higher.
d) In case of extraordinary delay, i.e. delays exceeding 90 days, 
interest will be paid at the rate of 2% above the corresponding 
Term Deposit rate.
e) In the event of the proceeds of cheque under collection to be 
credited to an overdraft / loan account of the customer, 
interest will be paid at the rate applicable to the loan account. 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 14
For extraordinary delays, i.e. delays exceeding 90 days, 
interest will be paid at the rate of 2% above the rate 
applicable to the loan account.
5.3 Interest as above shall be payable with a minimum of Rs.25/-.
6. CHEQUES / INSTRUMENTS LOST IN TRANSIT / IN
 CLEARING PROCESS OR AT PAYING BANK’S BRANCH:
6.1 In the event of a cheque/instrument accepted for collection being
lost in transit or in the clearing process or at the paying bank’s 
branch, the Bank shall immediately, on coming to know about the 
loss of instrument, bring the same to the notice of the account 
holder, so that the drawer can be informed to record stop 
payment and take care that cheques, if any, issued by him/her 
are returned with specific remarks and not just dishonoured as a 
routine due to non-credit of the amount of the lost 
cheques/instruments. The Bank would also advise the drawee 
bank all particulars of lost cheques / instruments for exercising 
caution and provide all assistance to the customer in obtaining a 
duplicate instrument from the drawer of the cheque. 
6.2 Where a cheque/instrument is claimed to have been deposited by 
the customer in Drop-Box, but Bank’s records do not show receipt 
of such cheque with the Bank, the Bank can not decide on the 
compensation amount for lost cheque in the absence of details of 
cheque like date, amount, drawee bank/branch/drawee centre 
etc. In such cases, the customer will have to corroborate a claim 
for lost cheque with full facts, inter-alia, including 
confirmation/enquiries from the drawee person/ drawee bank 
about genuineness of the claim and, on this basis if it is 
established that the customer has, in fact, tendered the cheque in 
Drop-Box, the Bank will consider payment of compensation in 
terms of the State Bank of India Compensation Policy.
6.3 In line with the Compensation Policy of the Bank, the Bank will 
compensate the account-holder in respect of instruments lost in 
transit in the following way:
a) In the event a cheque or an instrument accepted for collection 
is lost in transit or in clearing process or lost by the Service 
Provider (in case of CMP), the Bank shall immediately, on 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 15
coming to know of the loss of instrument, bring the same to 
the notice of the account holder as brought out under Para 6.1 
herein above. The Bank would provide assistance to the 
customer to obtain a duplicate instrument from the drawer of 
the cheque.
b) In case intimation regarding loss of instrument is conveyed to 
the customer beyond the time limit stipulated for collection, as 
per the Cheque Collection Policy of the Bank, (7/10/14 days as 
the case may be) interest will be paid for the period beyond 
the stipulated collection period at the rates specified in para 
5.2 & 5.3 above for cheques payable in India.
c)
i) Bank will pay interest on the amount of the cheque for a 
further period of 15 days at Savings Bank rate to provide 
for possible further delay in obtaining duplicate cheque 
/instrument and collection thereof. 
ii) The Bank would also compensate the customer for 
reasonable charges which he/she incurs in getting duplicate
cheque/instrument upon production of receipt, in the event 
the instrument is to be obtained from a Bank/institution 
who would charge a fee for issue of duplicate instrument, 
subject to a maximum of Rs. 250/-. 
7. COLLECTION OF INTERNATIONAL CHEQUES/INSTRUMENTS :
 7.1 The Bank handles, on behalf of its customers, at all its 
branches, collection of cheques drawn in various foreign 
currencies and payable at various foreign centers. The 
bulk of the collection instruments are: -
a) Foreign Currency cheques {including Travellers Cheques 
(TCs) & Money Order (MO)} drawn on/ payable in the 
country of that foreign currency ( viz. $ in USA, £ in UK, € 
in Euro Zone and so on) drawn on countries other than the 
country of particular currency viz. US $ cheques payable 
outside USA.
b) It is clarified that Travellers cheques issued by various 
Banks/Entities in various currencies will continue to be paid 
(by collection & purchase) at designated branches as per 
bilateral arrangement in place, as advised by Global Markets 
(Foreign Department), Kolkata, from time to time.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 16
7.2 Accordingly, the Policy for International Cheque Collection shall 
cover the following aspects:
i) Type of settlement process in foreign countries for collection of 
cheques.
ii) Arrangement for collection of cheques/instruments.
iii) Time–frame for collection of cheques.
iv) Interest payment for delayed collection, and 
v) Collection instruments lost in transit.
7.3 Settlement Process in Foreign Countries for collection of 
cheque:
Collection of cheques at various foreign centers differs vastly from 
the process prevalent in India, both in advanced markets,
developing countries and also from country to country within 
these two sub-groups. In some of the markets, clearing / 
settlement system can take more than 1 day, i.e. 2-4 days for 
return clearing and, therefore, for final funds settlement. Further, 
in some countries like USA the recall of funds from the collecting 
banker can occur even after the time for return clearing for an 
undefined period, in cases where National Clearing involves more 
than one Fed Zone. Further, as per section-15, chapter 2B,
paragraph-12B of “Manual of Forex operations”, updated as on 
31.03.2017, in the event of any USD cheque returned for any 
reason, in terms of Check 21Act of USA, we may receive an image 
of the returned legal cheque, including a paper copy of cheque 
image or a returned substitute cheque instead of a returned 
original paper cheque. There are also countries like Germany 
where cheques are no more the preferred mode of payments 
(replaced by online payments) and clearing takes place on a 
weekly basis. Cooling period for Foreign Currency Cheques (FCC) 
collection, as per arrangement made by Global Link Services 
(GLS) for FCC denominated in US$, Euro €, GB £, Canadian $ is as 
under:
Instruments for collection Cooling Periods
US $ Cheques payable in USA 15 days.
Travellers Cheque, Money Order, 
Gift Cheques in US $
15 days.
Euro payable in 10 countries 15 days.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 17
(Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, 
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherland, 
Portugal, Spain & United Kingdom).
GBP payable in UK 21 days.
CAD less than CAD10000/- 21 days.
CAD 10000/- and above NIL, but holding period of 60 
days.
Other Currencies 21 days.
7.4 Arrangement for collection of foreign cheques/instruments:
7.4.1 We have a network of branches, linked branches and Global Link 
Services (GLS) Department of International Banking Group (IBG). 
GLS uses services of different correspondent banks with large 
volumes, robust systems, suitable technology back up and country 
specific strengths to provide efficient service at competitive prices. 
Different Correspondent Banks are able to offer varied customized 
products to us for risk reduction, quicker collection, improved 
reconciliation etc. at various prices. When FCNR (B)/NRE TDR 
deposit receipt is to be issued against proceeds for FC cheques 
collected, branches have to ensure that: 
i) FCNR (B)/ NRE TDR Receipt should be mailed / handed 
over to the depositor only after the cooling period is over.
ii) As no protection against frauds on the face of cheques is 
available in such cases (a recall is possible within 1 year or 
more), the facility of loans, etc. against such deposits
should be extended only where branches are satisfied with 
the bonafides of the transaction and availability of recourse, 
if required.
iii) Valued date of FCNR (B) / NRE TDR will be the date of 
credit in NOSTRO a/c.
7.4.2 The USD, GBP, CAD & EURO cheques drawn on banks in USA, UK,
CANADA and European countries respectively are accepted by 
Global Link Service, Mumbai for collection. Cheques on these 
currencies drawn elsewhere as well as cheques of other 
currencies are required to be sent directly to the drawee bank, 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 18
with clear instructions for remittance of proceeds to the Banks’ 
account maintained with foreign offices/ correspondent banks.
7.5 Immediate credit of cheques to deposit accounts of 
individuals:-
7.5.1 Authorised branches of the Bank will offer immediate credit of 
cheques drawn in foreign currency for satisfactorily conducted
accounts complying with KYC norms where they are satisfied with 
the scope for recourse, if required, and the customers are willing 
to pay the cheque purchase charges. 
In value terms, cheque purchases for issue of Rupee TDRs may 
be authorized by Managers/Branch Managers in Scale III/IV 
incumbencies for a Rupee equivalent up to Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees 
fifty thousand only) and by AGM branch/ AGM Region for higher 
values in satisfactorily conducted accounts, as per paragraph
2.2.1 above, subject to their discretionary power. In all other 
cases, the discretionary power to purchase cheques, in aggregate 
for a particular customer, will be as per the laid down financial 
powers for clean instruments, subject to usual reporting to the 
next higher authority.
7.5.2 If a cheque/instrument, for which immediate credit has been 
afforded, is returned unpaid, the Bank shall recover interest at 
clean overdraft rate for the period the Bank remained out of funds 
and also cheque return charges and exchange loss, if any, subject 
to the following:
i) The Bank will charge interest from the date of credit of 
proceeds of the cheques in the account till reimbursement of 
money to the Bank.
ii) Where the cheque is credited to a Savings Bank account, such 
credits will not be reckoned for interest purposes if the cheque 
is returned.
iii) If proceeds are credited in an overdraft/loan account, interest 
would be recovered at applicable rate/clean overdraft rate, 
whichever is higher, on the amount of returned 
cheques/instruments. 
7.6 Time Frame for collection of instruments:- 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 19
The time frame is from the date of deposit of a cheque/ 
instrument at a branch to the date of credit to the customer’s 
account will be 10 days from the date of credit to NOSTRO 
account, including cooling period. However, it will not be 
exceeding 45 days from the date of deposit of cheques/ 
instruments except for the cheques/ instruments in CAD for 
10000/- & above, where it will be 10 days from credit to NOSTRO 
account.
7.7 Interest payment for delayed collection:- 
7.7.1 Delay in collection of cheques payable at foreign centres will be 
construed if the customer’s account is not credited within 7 days
i.e. after taking into account the prescribed cooling period for that 
currency, with the correspondent.
7.7.2 The Bank however, will not compensate the customer for delays 
in collection of cheques drawn on banks in foreign countries as 
the bank would not be able to ensure timely credit from 
overseas banks. It is the bank’s experience that time for collection 
of instruments drawn on banks in foreign countries differs from 
country to country and even within a country, from place to place. 
The time norms for return of instruments cleared provisionally 
also vary from country to country. 
7.7.3 For the sake of uniformity and clarity, the date of Clear Credit is 
defined as the date on which clear funds are available in our 
Nostro Account after an actual or notional cooling period – for 
actual credit to customers’ account as per Bank’s agreement with 
the concerned Correspondent Bank. Wherever there is no specific 
agreement on the cooling period or the funds are directly 
collected from a paying bank, the Clear Credit Date will be after 
observing a cooling period, as per the discretion of the Bank, for 
that specific currency/country/clearing system, from the date of 
actual credit to Bank’s Nostro Account.
7.7.4 The compensation on account of delay in collection of instruments 
in foreign currency will be paid in Indian Rupee, as detailed 
below: 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 20
i) At Savings Bank rate from the date of clear credit to Nostro 
Account till the date of payment if the period of delay is beyond 
prescribed collection period:
Date of NOSTRO A/C credit 01.08.2017
Add 15 days cooling period 16.08.2017
To be paid within 10 days 26.08.2017 (No delay)
Delayed interest payment, if proceeds are not credited within 
26.08.2017. The date of delay will be counted from the date 
NOSTRO a/c credited to the date of credit to the account 
(excluding credit date) i.e. payment after 26th Aug., will entitle 
payment of interest from 1st Aug., 2017 till the date of payment 
upto 45 days from 26th Aug., 2017.
ii) In case of abnormal delay, i.e. delays exceeding 45 days, interest 
will be paid at term deposit rate applicable for the period and for 
delays beyond 90 days, 2%above the applicable term deposit 
rate.
In the above example delay exceeding 45 days (beyond 26/08/17)
will be, if not paid till 10
th Oct., 2017.
Delay/ Abnormal delay Delayed interest @
>45 days to 90 days TDR rate.
>90 days 2 % above TDR rate.
iii) In the event of the proceeds of cheque under collection being 
required to be credited to an overdraft / loan account of the 
customer, interest will be paid at the rate applicable to the loan 
account, if the delay is less than 45 days. For abnormal delays, 
i.e. beyond 45 days, interest will be paid at the rate of 2 % above 
the applicable interest rate to the loan account. 
iv) Such interest shall be payable with a minimum of Rs. 25/-. 
7.7.5 Compensation as detailed above shall be paid without any 
formal demand from customers.
7.7.6 No separate compensation is payable by the Bank on account of 
movement in the value of the respective currencies.
7.7.7 International Cheques/instruments lost in transit/in 
 clearing process :
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 21
In the event an international cheque or an instrument accepted 
for collection is lost in transit or in the clearing process, the Bank 
shall, immediately on coming to know of the loss of an 
instrument, bring the same to the notice of the account holder so 
that the drawer can be informed to record stop payment. The 
Bank would also advise the correspondent/drawee bank all 
particulars of lost cheques/ instruments for exercising caution and 
provide all assistance to the customer in obtaining a duplicate 
instrument from the drawer of the cheques, if required. The Bank 
will endeavor to get payment of the instrument based on the 
photocopy/scanned image of the instrument, wherever the 
practice is prevalent. The Bank will bear the actual charges of 
recording Stop Payment instructions levied by drawee bank. The 
Bank will also reimburse the customer with actual charges levied 
by the drawer / bank in issuing duplicate cheques/instrument, 
subject to a maximum of Rs.250/-. 
 
8. GENERAL: 
8.1 Both the drop box facility and the facility for the 
acknowledgement of the cheques at regular collection counters 
should be available to the customers and no branch should refuse 
to give an acknowledgement if the customer tenders the cheques 
at the counters. 
8.2 Branch should ensure that customers are not compelled to drop 
the cheques in the drop-box. 
8.3 Further, in the context of customer awareness in this regard, 
branch should invariably display on the cheque drop box itself that 
“Customer can also tender the cheques at the counter and obtain 
acknowledgment on the pay –in-slips”. The above message is 
required to be displayed in English, Hindi and the concerned 
regional language of the State. 
8.4 Branches are also advised to make absolutely fool proof 
arrangement accounting for the number of instruments each time 
the box is opened so that there are no dispute and the customer’s 
interest are not compromised.
8.5 Branches shall not decline to accept outstation cheques deposited by its 
customers for collection.
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 22
8.6 Branches shall give wide publicity to the CCP by prominently displayed 
salient features thereof in bold and visible letters on the notice board at 
their branches.
8.7 A copy of the complete CCP shall be made available by the Branch 
Manager, if the customer requires so.
8.8. DISCRETIONARY POWER FOR PUCHASE OF CHEQUES:
Branches should refer Bank’s Delegation of Financial Power for 
Unsecured advances in the respective grade/scale, for purchase of 
cheques, revised from time to time. Current Ref: Organisational 
Planning. Sl.no.: 881/2016 – 17 Circular no. : CDO/ORG-DFP/4/2016 –
17, dated 04.10.2016:
Assistant Manager NIL
Deputy Manager 3 Lacs
Manager 5 lacs
Chief Manager 10 Lacs
9. FORCE MAJEURE:
Bank shall not be liable to compensate the customers for delayed 
credit if some unforeseen event (including, but not limited to civil 
commotion, sabotage, lockout, strike or other labour disturbances, 
accident, fire, natural disasters or other “Acts of God”, war, 
damage to the Bank’s facilities or of its correspondent bank(s), 
beyond the control of the bank) prevents it from performing its 
obligations within the specified service delivery parameters. 
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 23
ANNEXURE-I
Code No. Reason for Return
 Funds
01 Funds insufficient 
02 Exceeds arrangement
03 Effects not cleared, present again.
 Reference to Drawer
04 Refer to drawer
 05 Kindly contact Drawer/Drawee Bank and please present
again. 
 Signature
 10 Drawer’s signature incomplete
 11 Drawer’s signature illegible
 12 Drawer’s signature differs
 13 Drawer’s signature required
 14 Drawer’s signature not as per mandate
 15 Drawer’s signature to operate account not received
 16 Drawer’s authority to operate account not received
 17 Alteration requires drawer’s authentication
 Stop Payment
 20 Payment stopped by drawer
 21 Payment stopped by attachment order
 22 Payment stopped by court order
 23 Withdrawal stopped owing to death of account holder
 24 Withdrawal stopped owing to lunacy of account holder
 25 Withdrawal stopped owing to insolvency of account 
 holder 
 Instrument
 30 Instrument post dated
 31 Instrument out dated/stale
 32 Instrument undated/ without proper date
 33 Instrument mutilated; requires Bank’s guarantee
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 24
 34 Cheque irregularly drawn/ amount in words and figures
differs 
 35 Clearing House stamp/ date required
 36 Wrongly delivered/ Not drawn on us
 37 Present in proper zone
 38 Instrument contains extraneous matter
 39 Image not clear, present again with paper
 40 Present with document 
 41 Item listed twice
 42 Paper not received
 Account 
 50 Account closed
 51 Account transferred to another branch
 52 No such account 
 53 Title of account required
 54 Title of account wrong/ incomplete
 55 Account blocked (situation covered in 21-25)
 Crossing/Endorsement
 60 Crossed to two banks
 61 Crossing stamp not cancelled
 62 Clearing stamp not cancelled
 63 Instrument specially crossed to another bank
 64 Amount in protective crossing incorrect
 65 Amount in protective crossing required/illegible
 66 Payee’s endorsement required
 67 Payee’s endorsement irregular / requires collecting
 bank’s confirmation
 68 Endorsement by mark/ thumb impression requires
 attestation by Magistrate with seal 
RBI /Government
 70 Advice not received
 71 Amount / Name differs on advice
 72 Drawee bank’s fund with sponsor bank insufficient
 73 Payee’s separate discharge to bank required 
 74 Not payable till 1st proximo
 75 Pay order/ cheque requires counter signature
 76 Required information not legible/ correct
Miscellaneous 
 80 Bank’s certificate ambiguous/ incomplete/ required
 81 Draft lost by issuing office/ confirmation required from
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 25
 Issuing office
 82 Bank/Branch blocked
 83 Digital Certificate Validation failure
 84 Other reasons-connectivity failure
 85 Alterations on instrument- Other than “Date” field
(Alteration/correction on instruments are prohibited under
Cheque Truncation System. Return reason code
 applicable to instruments presented in CTS) 
 86 Fake/Forged/Stolen-draft/cheque/cash order/interest 
 warrant/dividend warrant
 87 ‘Payee’s a/c credited’- Stamp required 
 88 Other reasons (Please specify)
 92 Bank Excluded
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 26
ANNEXURE-II
Illustrative but not exhaustive list of objections where 
customers are not at fault
(Applicable for instrument and image-based Cheque Clearing as detailed in 
Annexure D to Uniform Regulations and Rules for Bankers’ Clearing Houses)
Code No. Reason for Return
33 Instrument mutilated; requires bank’s guarantee
35 Clearing House stamp/date required
36 Wrongly delivered/ not drawn on us
37 Present in proper zone
38 Instrument contains extraneous matter
39 Image not clear ; present again with paper
40 Present with document
41 Item listed twice
42 Paper not received
60 Crossed to two banks
61 Crossing stamp not cancelled
62 Clearing stamp not cancelled
63 Instrument specially crossed to another bank
67 Payee’s endorsement irregular/ requires collecting bank’s 
confirmation
68 Endorsement by mark/ thumb impression requires attestation by 
Magistrate with seal
70 Advice not received
71 Amount/ Name differs on advice
72 Drawee bank’s fund with sponsor bank insufficient(applicable to 
sub-members)
73 Payee’s separate discharge to bank required
74 Not payable till 1st proximo
75 Pay order/cheque requires counter signature
76 Required information not legible/correct
80 Bank’s certificate ambiguous/ incomplete/required
81 Draft lost by issuing office; confirmation required from issuing 
office
82 Bank/ Branch blocked
83 Digital Certificate validation failure
84 Other reasons-connectivity failure
87 ‘Payee’s a/c Credited’-Stamp required
92 Bank excluded
SBI Cheque Collection Policy- 2017 Page 27
Annexture-III
Mr./Mrs./Ms.--------------------
Address:-
Madam/Dear Sir,
Cheque/Instrument No. dated for Rs. Lost 
in transit/ in clearing process.
 
With reference to the above, we advise that the cheque deposited by 
you, appears to be lost while carrying out the process of clearing. 
Accordingly, we request you to advise the drawer of the cheque to 
arrange for issuing STOP payment instruction to their concerned Banker. 
Further, we request you to arrange for obtaining duplicate instrument 
from drawer of the cheque.
2. We regret for the inconvenience caused to you and assure you of our 
best services.
Yours faithfully,
( Name )
Branch Manager