MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Statement Balance Late Payment Charges
Less than 100/- ` Nil
` ` 100/- to 500/- ` 100/-
` ` 501/- to 5,000/- ` 400/-
` ` 5,001/- to 20,000/- ` 500/-
` 20,000/- and above ` 700/-
The “Most Important Terms and Conditions”(“MITC”) are applicable to all Credit
Cards/Cardmembers/applicants of Credit Cards/Customers of YES BANK /members of the general
public evincing interest in the Credit Card product of YES BANK. The MITC are subject to change at the
discretion of YES BANK and in accordance with laws as applicable from time to time and they are in
addition to and are to be read along with the terms and conditions of Cardmember Agreement
(“Cardmember Agreement”). In case of any inconsistency between MITC and the Cardmember
Agreement, the CardmemberAgreement shall prevail, unless otherwise specified hereunder.
All capitalized terms used herein but not defined here, shall have the meaning given to them under the
CardmemberAgreement.
1. Fee and Charges
A. Annual Membership Fee
Annual Membership Fee is applicable on the Primary and Add-on Credit Card(s). These fees may vary
depending on the offer under which YES BANK Credit Card has been availed of by the Cardmember.
The same is communicated to the Cardmember at the time of Credit Card application. These fees,
including fees for any Add-on Cardmember(s), as applicable, are billed to the Cardmember's Credit
Card account on issuance / renewal and the same will reflect in the Credit Card statement of the month
in which it is billed. No refund of fees will be applicable on closure of Credit Card.
B. CashAdvance Fees
The Cardmember can use the Credit Card to access cash round the clock fromATMs in India or abroad.
Atransaction fee of 2.5% (Minimum 300) would be levied on the amount withdrawn and would be billed `
to the Cardmember in the next monthly statement. The transaction fee is subject to change at the sole
discretion of YES BANK. All cash advance transactions also carry a finance charge equal to charge on
revolving credit (please refer Schedule of Charges) from the date of withdrawal until the date of full
payment.Applicable finance charge is subject to change at the sole discretion of YES BANK.
C. Other Charges
Fees and charges, as may be applicable from time to time, are payable by Cardmember for specific
services provided by YES BANK to the Cardmember or for defaults committed by the Cardmember
with reference to his / her card account.
Late Payment charges will be applicable if Minimum
Amount Due is not paid by the payment due date.
Clear funds need to be credited to YES BANK Credit
Card account on or before the payment due date, to
avoid Late Payment charges. Late payment charges
are applicable as:
Please be advised that applicable Indirect Taxes
including Service Tax, and Swachh Bharat Cess and
Krishi Kalyan Cess would be levied on all fees and
charges and any other amount liable to tax under
prevailing Indirect Tax. (Krishi Kalyan Cess will be applicable from 1 June 2016 onwards) st
YES BANK retains the right to alter any fees or charges from time to time or to introduce new fees or
charges, as it may deem appropriate. Such changes will be made with prospective effect giving notice
of at least 30 days.
D. Interest Free Period
Cardmember can avail interest free credit period of upto 50 days subject to the scheme applicable on
the specific Credit Card (please refer to the Schedule of Charges as annexed herein). However, Interest
free period is not applicable if the previous month's statement balance has not been cleared in full on or
before the due date. The same will also not be applicable if the Cardmember has withdrawn cash from
ATM.
1
2
Illustrative Example for Interest Free Credit Period Calculation:
Let us assume that the payment due date for a Credit Card falls on 25 May, and previous month's dues th
have been paid in full, the grace period would be:
1. For a purchase dated 6 April, interest free credit period is 6 April to 25 May = 50 days. th th th
2. For a purchase dated 17 April, interest free grace period is 17 April to 25 May = 39 days. th th th
2. Limits
YES BANK, at its sole discretion will determine the Cardmember's Credit limit and cash withdrawal
limit (Add-on Cardmembers share the same limit as that of the Primary Cardmember). Credit limit is
the maximum amount, which can be outstanding against the Credit Card account at any given time.
These limits are duly communicated to the Cardmember at the time of card delivery and through the
monthly statements. The available credit limit at the time of the statement generation is provided as
part of the monthly statement as well. Cash Advance Limit is the maximum amount of cash or
equivalent of cash as defined or prescribed by YES BANK, that the Cardmember can use on his/her
Credit Card Account. Cash Limit is part of the Cardmember's Credit Limit. Please refer Schedule of
Charges to know applicable CashAdvance Limit.
As a service gesture, YES BANK may approve certain transactions attempted by the Cardmember,
which are over and above the credit limit. However, an over limit charge of 2.5% of the overlimit amount
or 500 (whichever is higher) will be levied on the Credit Card account. `
YES BANK will review the Cardmember's Credit Card account periodically.
YES BANK, at its sole discretion, may decrease the Cardmember's credit limit based on internal
criteria. Bank will inform Cardmember for the same immediately including the reason thereof by
SMS/email followed by confirmation in writing.
Cardmember seeking to have Cardmember’s credit limit increased can do so by writing to YES BANK
and providing financial documents declaring Cardmember/s income.YES BANK, at its sole discretion
and based on such new documents provided, may increase the Cardmember's Credit Limit.
Usage of the Credit Card shall be deemed as acceptance of the credit limits granted from time to time.
3. Finance Charges
Finance charges are payable at the monthly percentage rate on all transactions from the date of
transaction in the event of the Cardmember choosing not to pay his balance in full, and on all
cash advances taken by the Cardmember, till they are paid back. Finance charges, if payable, are
debited to Cardmember's account till the outstanding on the card is paid in full.
Finance charges on cash advances are applicable from the date of transaction until the payment is
made in full.
When the Cardmember carries forward any outstanding amount or avails of Cash Advance, a finance
charge calculated by average Daily Balance Method, will apply to balances carried forward and to fresh
billings, till such time the previous outstanding amounts are repaid in full.
Please note that the Finance charges and other charges are subject to change at the discretion of YES
BANK.
Please refer to following illustration for understanding the calculation of finance charges on
revolving credit.
It's assumed that the Cardmember has paid all previous dues in full and does not have any amount
outstanding in his/her YES BANK Credit Card Account. Cardmember's statement date is 20 of every th
month. The following is the list of transactions Cardmember has done on his/her Card account.
Date Transaction Amount
2 June nd Purchase of Apparel ` 5000
14 June th Purchase of Grocery ` 1000
20 June th Statement date Total Amount Due = 6000 Minimum Amount Due = 300 ` `
10 July th Payment realised on the card account ` 1000 (Credit)
14 July th Purchase of groceries ` 1000
20 July th Statement date Total Amount Due = 6338.43 Minimum Amount Due = 316.92 ` `
On the statement dated 20 July, the following will reflect as the components of the total amount payable th
by the Cardmember:
Interest calculated = (outstanding amount x 3.22% pm x 12 months x no of days) /365
a) Interest on 5000 @ 3.22%pm from 2 June to 9 July (for 38 days)= 201.14 ` ` nd th
Interest on 1000@ 3.22%pm from 14 June to 9 July (i.e. for 26days) = 27.52 ` ` th th
Interest on 5000 @ 3.22%pm from: 10 July to 20 July (i.e. for 11 days)= 58.22 ` ` th th
Interest on 1000 (fresh spends) @3.22%pm from 14 July to 20 July (i.e. for 7 days) = 7.41 ` ` th th
Total interest of 294.29 `
b) Goods and ServicesTax (GST) of 18% on the interest amount = 52.97 `
c) Total Principal amount outstanding= 6000 ( 1000 fresh spend + balance 5000 outstanding from ` ` `
last month's billing period)
Hence TotalAmount Due= (a) + (b) + (c) = 6347.27 `
4. Billing
YES BANK will send the Cardmember a monthly statement showing the payments credited and the
transactions debited to the Card Account since the last statement. YES BANK will mail / email a
statement of transactions in the card account every month on a pre determined date, to the mailing
address / email address on record with YES BANK. If the balance outstanding is less than
`100/- and there is no further transaction pending billing since last statement, no statement will be
issued.
YES BANK Credit Cards offer the Cardmember, the facility of revolving credit. The Cardmember may
choose to pay only the MinimumAmount Due (MAD), TotalAmount Due or any part of the TotalAmount
Due above MAD as mentioned in the Credit Card statement. The balance· outstanding can be
carried forward to subsequent statements. Such payment should be made before the Payment
Due Date. Clear funds need to be credited to YES BANK Card account on or before payment due date
to avoid Late Payment Charges. Cardmembers are advised to drop local cheques well in advance to
the Payment due date to ensure payment reflects on the card account within the payment due date.
Current Minimum Amount Due is calculated as 5% of balance outstanding or 200 (whichever is `
higher), added with all applicable taxes and EMI (only in case of EMI based products). Any unpaid
Minimum Amount Due of the previous statement, will be added to the Cardmember's current Minimum
Amount due in addition to the outstanding exceeding the Cardmember's Credit Limit.
Payments made towards the Credit Card outstanding are acknowledged in subsequent statements.
Payments received against the Cardmember's card outstanding will be adjusted against service tax
interest charges, service charges and fees (including membership fee),principal balance from last
cycle and current cycle purchases, in that order.
Payments towards the card account may be made in any of the following ways:
In case the Cardmember has a YES BANK account, he/she can make the payment through
NetBanking and/or YES BANK ATMs. Such Cardmember can also opt for a standing instruction
facility, where funds can be automatically transferred from Cardmember's YES BANK Account to
Cardmember's CardAccount on due date.
Cardmember can make payment through NEFT fund transfer mode from other bank account by
adding 16 card number as beneficiary (use IFSC code YESB0CMSNOC), or payment through Bill
desk facility using other bank’s net banking account.
Cardmember can also make payment by dropping the payment instrument (Cheque or draft) into any
of the YES BANK Credit Card drop boxes placed in the YES BANK branches and ATMs. The
Cheque/Draft should be made payable to YES BANK Credit Card Number xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx.
Cardmember can also make payment through Cash Payments in YES BANK Branches. Please refer
Schedule of Charges for applicable charge for cash payments in Credit Card account.
In case of any change in Cardmember’s communication address/email address, Cardmember is
advised to contact and update the same with YES BANK immediately to ensure that the Cardmember
receive statements regularly on time.
Statement/Billing Disputes:All the contents of the statement will be deemed to be correct and accepted
if the Cardmember does not inform YES BANK of the discrepancies within 60 days of the Statement
Date in writing. On receipt of such Information, YES BANK may reverse the charge on temporary basis
pending investigation. If on completion of subsequent investigations, the liability of such charges is to
the Cardmember's account , the charges will be reinstated in subsequent statement along with the
associated retrieval requests charges.
3
Please note that making only the minimum payment every month would result in the repayment
stretching over years with consequent interest payment on your outstanding balance.
The Cardmember can contact YES BANK Credit Cards for making any enquiries in relation to the
billing and statement disputes
24x7 YES TOUCH Customer Care Number: 1800 103 1212/ 022-49350000
Through mail - YES BANK Limited, One India Bulls Park, No 14, 3 Main Road, Ambattur Industrial rd
Estate,Ambattur, Chennai - 600058
By email yestouchcc@yesbank.in
5. Default and Circumstances
If the Cardmember does not pay, at least Minimum Amount Due by the payment due date, the account
will be reported as ‘overdue’ in the monthly submissions to the credit bureaus, authorized by Reserve
Bank of India (RBI). Non-payment of at least the minimum amount due may lead to disruption of Credit
Card services. Cardmember will be reminded in subsequent statements to pay his/her dues. If
Cardmember makes requisite payments, his/her record will be updated as 'current' in the next monthly
refresh to the credit bureau.
In the event of default, the Cardmember will be sent reminders from time to time for settlement of any
outstanding on the card account, by suitable communication channels and/or engaging third parties to
remind, follow up and collect dues.Any third party so appointed, shall adhere fully to the code of conduct
on debt collection.
6. Right of Lien
YES BANK , at any time and without notice, will have lien and right to set-off on all amounts belonging to
the Cardmember and/or Add-on Cardmember standing to their credit in any account/custody of
YES BANK , if upon demand by YES BANK, the balance amount on the card account is not repaid within
the prescribed time.
7. Termination/Revocation of the Card Membership
The Cardmember may terminate the card membership at any-time by writing to
YES BANK at the following address:
Credit Cards Division, YES BANK Ltd., YES BANK Tower, Plot No. 14, 3rd Main Road, Ambattur
Industrial Estate, Ambattur, Chennai - 600058 along with 'the cards cut diagonally to minimum 4
pieces.All the cards including the add-on cards will be terminated basis the written request. Termination
will be effective only after receipt of the cut cards and payment of all amounts outstanding to the card
account. No annual, joining or renewal fees shall be refunded on a pro-rata basis.
Incase YES BANK notices unusual and abnormal transaction patterns in the use of the Credit Card,
YES BANK will try to establish contact with the Cardmember on the registered phone number of the
Cardmember available on its records to verify the validity of the card transaction.
Failure on the part of YES BANK to establish contact with the Cardmember, YES BANK may restrict
/terminate the use of the Credit Card without any further notice, if YES BANK reasonably believes that
it is necessary in the interest of the Cardmember and /or for security reasons.
YES BANK can suspend the facility on the Credit Card, if the Cardmember defaults on payment due or
exceeds the credit limit extended. The Credit Card must not be used after the CardmemberAgreement
has ended or if the card account is suspended. In such a situation, Cardmember must (subject to any
default or other notice required by law) immediately pay YES BANK the total outstanding balance on
the Credit Card Account. This includes all amounts due to YES BANK under the Cardmember
Agreement including all transactions and other amounts not yet charged to the Credit Card Account.
The Credit Card will not be considered as closed until the Cardmember has paid all such due amounts
in full.
The death or incapacitance of a Cardmember shall automatically cancel the Credit Card issued to the
Cardmember as well as anyAdd-on Cardmembers. The Credit CardAccount would also be liable to be
suspended on instructions from any government/regulatory body. All amounts outstanding on the
Credit Card Account shall be deemed to have immediately become due on death or incapacitance as
the case may be, and YES BANK shall be entitled to recover the same in accordance with the relevant
laws in force without prejudice to the obligation of the Cardmember to forth with pay all outstanding
amounts.
4
8. Loss /Theft/Misuse of Card
The Cardmember must notify the same on our 24x7 YES TOUCH Customer Care Number immediately
if the Primary or anyAdd-on Credit Card is misplaced, lost, stolen , mutilated, not received when due or
if he/she suspects that the Credit Card is being used without Cardmember's permission.
YES BANK shall not be liable or responsible for any transaction incurred on the card account prior to
time of reporting of the loss of the card, the Cardmember will be wholly liable for the same. Once
YES BANK receives proper notification of the loss, Cardmember is not liable for any future
transactions on the CardAccount. In addition to notifying YES BANK about the loss or theft of the Credit
Card, the Cardmember must report any theft of Cards to the Police, lodge an FIR and provide
acknowledged copy of police complaint.
The Cardmember will be liable for all losses in case of misuse of the card by someone who obtained the
PIN or the card with the consent of Cardmember orAdd-on Cardmember.
If the Cardmember has acted fraudulently, the Cardmember will be liable for all losses. If the
Cardmember acts without reasonable care, the Cardmember may be liable for all losses incurred.
YES BANK may, without referring to the Cardmember or any Add-on Cardmember, give the police
or other relevant authorities any information that YES BANK considers relevant about the loss, theft or
misuse of a Card or PIN.
Once a card is reported lost, it should not, under any circumstance be used if found by the Cardmember
subsequently. Please destroy the card by cutting it into several pieces through the magnetic strip and
EMV Chip.
The PIN (Personal Identification Number) issued to the Cardmember for use with the Credit Card or
any number chosen by the Cardmember as a PIN should be known only to the Cardmember. It is for the
personal use of the Cardmember and it is non-transferable and strictly confidential. A written record of
PIN should not be kept in any form, place or manner that may facilitate its use by a third party. The PIN
should not be disclosed to any third party, either to staff of YES BANK or to merchant establishment,
under any circumstances or by any means, whether voluntary or otherwise. YES BANK and/or its
staff/employees shall not be responsible or liable for any compromise with the PIN by the
Cardmember.
9. Grievance Redressal
If you are not satisfied with our services and/or response given by any of YES BANK‘s access channels,
you may call us at 1800 103 1212 (Toll free) / 022 - 49350000 or send an email to
yestouchcc@yesbank.in.For any escalations, you may contact our principal nodal officer
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, at YES BANK Limited, 5th Floor, IFC, YES BANK Tower, Elphinstone Road (W),
Mumbai – 400013. Email: principal.nodalofficer@yesbank.in OR call 0124-4619044 between 09.30
am to 05.30 pm Monday to Friday.
In the event that you do not receive any response within 1 (One) month from the date you represented
your complaint to the above mentioned channels, or if you are dissatisfied with the response given, you
may write to Banking Ombudsman for an independent review. Please visit the grievance redressal
webpage on www.rbi.org.in for details on the Banking Ombudsman scheme.
10. Disclosure & Important Regulatory Information
The Cardmember acknowledges that as per existing business practices, the Bank can disclose from
time to time any information relating to the Credit Card(s), to any credit bureau (existing or future)
without any notice to the Cardmember.
The Credit Information Bureau India Limited (CIBIL) is an initiative of the Government of India and
Reserve Bank of India to improve the functionality and stability of the financial system. All Banks and
financial institutions participating in this initiative are required to share customer data with CIBIL/other
credit bureaus and this information is being provided in the terms of the Credit Information Companies
Regulation Act, 2005. In view of this we wish to inform the Cardmember that YES BANK can disclose
any information relating to credit card(s) default by the Cardmember to CIBIL and to any other
credit bureau (existing and future) in case the card payment is overdue , with due notice. Any
refresh/updation of data on receipt of payment towards overdue card accounts will reflect in
CIBIL/other credit bureaus within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of payment by
YES BANK.
YES BANK reserves the right to report a delinquent Cardmember to bureau even in the instance of
Cardmember raising a billing dispute, which YES BANK has clarified as an invalid dispute earlier or
raised by the Cardmember after the cut-off time for such disputes as defined by
5
YES BANK and/or the dispute is in relation to transactions where a PIN or a One Time Password was
used.
YES BANK also reserves the right to assign any activities related to the Credit Card operations to any
service provider appointed by YES BANK, whether located in India or overseas and whether a
YES BANK Group entity or a third party, at its sole discretion, in accordance with the applicable
guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). YES BANK can provide/share details of Cardmember(s)
account/application to such service providers for any activities related to the Credit Card operations
without any specific consent.
We also wish to inform the Cardmember that YES BANK will, at its own discretion, record
specific conversations between the Cardmember and the representative of YES BANK, in cases
of grievance-related conversation or payments recovery-related conversation or any other
conversation, that YES BANK may deem fit.
Select Credit Card variants have a complimentary insurance cover on the Card. The policy coverage
starts from the date of the Credit Card set up. For more information and terms & conditions, please refer
to the YES BANK Website.
From time to time, YES BANK communicates various features / products / promotional offers which
offer significant benefits to its Cardmembers and may use the services of third party agencies to do so.
If Cardmember does not wish to be informed about such benefits through telephone calls / SMS,
he/she can subscribe for the 'Do not call' service. Please call customer service or visit www.yes.bank
to subscribe for ‘Do not Call’service.
Your YES BANK Credit Card transactions outside India must be made strictly in accordance with
Exchange Control Regulations of the Reserve Bank of India and the Foreign Exchange Management
Act, 1999. Cardmember resident in India is notified that collecting and effecting/ remitting payments
directly/ indirectly outside India in any form towards overseas foreign exchange trading through
electronic/internet trading portals is prohibited and a cardholder making such transactions would make
himself/ herself/themselves liable to be proceeded against with for contravention of the Foreign
Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999 besides being liable for violation of regulations relating to
Know Your Customer (KYC) norms/Anti Money Laundering (AML) standards. Any violation of the
Exchange Control Regulations arising out of utilization of YES BANK Credit Card is the sole
responsibility of the individual YES BANK Credit Cardmember
International Credit Cards cannot be used on the internet or otherwise for the purchase of prohibited
items such as lottery tickets, banned or proscribed magazines, participation in sweepstakes, payment
for call back services and/or such items/activities for which no withdrawal of foreign exchange is
permitted.
6
YES Prosperity BUSINESS Credit Card
`2,500 + Taxes Applicable
(For first year, Fee is charged in first statement. For every renewal, Annual
Fee is charged in first statement post renewal)
No Joining Fee, No Annual Fee (Maximum Upto 3 Add-On Cards can be issued)
Valid for Transaction between 400/- to 5,000/- only. Maximum surcharge ` `
waiver in a statement cycle 500/- `
2.5% + Tax Applicable
Upto 50 days
Minimum of 5% of total payment due as per statement or 200, whichever is higher `
30% of Credit Limit
2.5% of overlimit amount or 500, whichever is higher `
2.5% of amount withdrawn or 300, whichever is higher `
`350 (Per instance of cheque or Auto Pay Return)
`100 per redemption request
`25 (Per Outstation Cheque)
`100 per statement
`100 (To be charged for Cash Deposit on or after 01/01/2017)
Charges Applicable as per IRCTC website
18% (Applicable on all fee and charges)
Schedule of Charges - YES BANK Credit Cards
Annual Membership Fee (First Year and Renewal)
Spend Condition for waiver of Annual Charges.
(Only applicable on retail spend transaction)
Interest Free Period
Minimum Amount Due (MAD)
Cash Advance Limit
Add-on Card Fee
Overlimit Fee
Cash Advance Fee
Payment Return Charges: Cheques/Auto pay
Reward Redemption Fee
Finance Charges on Revolving Credit, on Cash
advance and/or on overdue amount
Fuel surcharge waiver
(Service Tax and other Cess levied on Fuel
Surcharge will not be reversed)
Re-issue of lost, stolen or damaged card
Foreign Currency Conversion Charges
Outstation Cheque Processing Fee
Duplicate Statement (Statement older than
6 months)
Cash deposit at YBL Branches towards Credit
Card repayment
Railway ticket booking and cancellation surcharge
(On Counters)
Goods and Services Tax
Joining Fee Nil
`100 (Per reissuance)
For YES BANK Current Account, Savings Account Holders or
Business Banking relationship –
2.40% per month (i.e. 28.80% annualised)
Others - 3.22% per month (i.e. 38.64% annualised)
Late Payment Charges (LPC)
(Per Statement, as per the statement balance)
For Statement
Balance < 100 `
LPC
`101-500
`100
`501-5,000
`400
`5,001-20,000
`500
> 20,000 `
Nil `700
Not applicable under Annual Fee reversal conditions
7
Credit Cards Division, YES BANK Ltd., YES BANK Tower, Plot No. 14, 3rd Main Road, Ambattur Industrial Estate,
Ambattur, Chennai - 600058
24x7 YES TOUCH Customer Care Numbers :
1800 103 1212 (Toll Free For Mobile & Landlines in India)
+91 22 4935 0000 (When calling from Outside India)
Website: www.yes.bank
E-mail Address: yestouchcc@yesbank.in
www.yes.bank
MITC kit/YES Prosperity BUSINESS/Version 1.0