SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 1 of 42
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SHEET
(Description is illustrative and not exhaustive)
S. 
NO
TITLE DESCRIPTION REFER TO 
POLICY CLAUSE 
NUMBER
1 Product 
Name
Arogya Premier Policy
2 What am I 
covered for
Following are covered as basic cover up to the limit specified in the 
policy 
IV. Scope of 
Cover
1. Hospitalisation expenses
2. Pre-hospitalisation expenses
3. Post-hospitalisation expenses
4. Day care expenses
5. Ambulance including air ambulance expenses
6. Alternative treatment
7. Domiciliary hospitalisation
8. Maternity Expenses Traceable to Childbirth
9. Organ Donor Expenses
10. Health check up
11. Reinstatement of Sum Insured
12. Cumulative Bonus
13. HIV/AIDS Cover upto Sum Insured
14. Mental Illness Cover upto Sum Insured (Sub limit - Rs. 1,00,000
whichever is lower, applicable for few conditions)
15. Genetic Disorders or Diseases Cover upto the limit Rs. 1,00,000
16. Internal Congenital Diseases Upto Rs. 10% of Sum Insured.
17. 12 Specific Procedures up to 50% of -of Sum Insured
Note: Insurer’s Liability in respect of all claims admitted during the 
period of insurance shall not exceed the Sum Insured for the Insured 
person as mentioned in the schedule.
3 What are 
the major 
Exclusions 
in the policy
Following is a partial list of the policy exclusions. Please refer to the 
policy document for the complete list of exclusions:
V. Exclusions
1. Admission primarily for investigation & evaluation
2. Admission primarily for rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care
3. Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that do not 
fulfill certain conditions
4. Change-of-Gender treatments
5. Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery
6. Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to 
participation in hazardous or adventure sports
7. Outpatient department treatment
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 2 of 42
(Note: the above is a partial listing of the policy exclusions. Please refer 
to the policy clauses for the full listing).
4 Waiting 
period
1. Initial waiting period: 30 days for all illnesses (not applicable on 
renewal or for accidents)
V. Exclusions
2. 90 days for specified disease and procedure
3. Specified surgeries/treatments/diseases are covered after specific 
waiting period of 12 months
4. Pre-existing diseases: Covered after 48 months unless otherwise 
provided
5. Maternity Benefit expenses are covered after waiting period of 9 
months.
5 Payout 
basis
Indemnity basis for covered expenses up to specified sum insured. IV. Scope of 
Cover
6 Cost sharing No cost sharing
7 Renewal 
Conditions
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on misrepresentation by 
the insured person. grounds of fraud,
i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. 
However, the Company is not under obligation to give any 
notice for renewal.
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured 
person had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy 
years.
iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be 
received by the Company before the end of the policy 
period.
iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and 
can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days to 
maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. 
Coverage is not available during the grace period.
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims 
experience
VI. Conditions 
8 Renewal 
Benefits
1. For every four claim free policy years, free health check up for the 
insured subject to maximum INR 5000/-
2. Cumulative bonus will be allowed at the rate of 10% of expiring 
Policy’s Sum Insured on every renewal of claim free policy. This 
cumulative bonus can be accumulated up to 50% and will get 
reduced by 10% in case of claim under the Policy. But accumulated 
cumulative bonus cannot be negative
IV. Scope of 
Cover
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 3 of 42
9 Cancellation Cancellation:
i. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 1Sdays'written 
notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund premium for 
the unexpired policy period as detailed below.
Period on risk Rate of premium refunded
Up to one month 75% of annual rate
Up to three months 50%of annual rate
Up to six months 25% of annual rate
Exceeding six 
months
Nil
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no 
refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, 
any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has 
been availed by the insured person under the policy.
ii. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of 
misrepresentation non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the 
insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no 
refund of premium on cancellation on grounds or misrepresentation, 
non-disclosure of material facts or fraud.
Cancellation of long term Policies:
If a long term Policy issued with Policy period above 1 year is 
cancelled, than premium for the year which is fully utilised by 
insured will be retained in full by the Company. For current year, 
the premium will be refunded either on short period scale (If 
cancelled by the Insured) or on prorate basis (If cancelled by the 
Company). For the year which has not commenced, the premium 
will be refunded in full. Long term discount allowed on the Policy 
will be readjusted.
VI. Conditions 
10 Claims
a. For Cashless Service:
Refer link for Hospital Network details –
http://www.sbigeneral.in/portal/contact-us/hospital
b. For Reimbursement of Claim: For reimbursement 
of claims the insured
prescribed time limit as specified hereunder.
Sl
No
Type of Claim Prescribed Time limit
1 Reimbursement of 
hospitalization, day care and 
pre-hospitalization expenses
Within fifteen days of date 
of discharge from hospital
VI. Conditions
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 4 of 42
2 Reimbursement of post 
hospitalization expenses
Within fifteen days from 
completion of post 
hospitalization treatment
For details on claim procedure please refer the policy document.
11 Policy 
Servicing If You/Insured Person may have a grievance that requires to be 
redressed, You/Insured Person may contact Us with the details of the 
grievance through:
• Level 1
Call us on our Toll Free for any queries that you may have @ 
1800221111, 18001021111
Email your queries to customer.care@sbigeneral.in
Visit our website www.sbigeneral.in to register for your queries
Please walk into any of our branch office or corporate office during 
business hours
You may also fax us your queries at _1800227244, 18001027244
• Level 2 
If you still are not happy about the resolution provided then you may 
please write to our head.customercare@sbigeneral.in
• Level 3
If you are dissatisfied with the resolution provided in the Steps as 
indicated above on your Complaint, you may send your ‘Appeal’ 
addressed to the Chairman of the Grievance Redressal Committee. The 
Committee will look into the appeal and decide the same expeditiously 
on merits.
You can write to Head – Compliance, Legal & CS on the id -
gro@sbigeneral.in
• Level 4
If your issue remains unresolved you may approach IRDA by calling on 
the Toll Free no. 155255 or you can register an online complaint on the
website http://igms.irda.gov.in
• Senior Citizens: Senior Citizens can also write to 
seniorcitizengrievances@sbigeneral.in
If after having followed the above steps you are not happy with the 
resolution and your issue remains unresolved, you may approach the 
Insurance Ombudsman for Redressal.
VI. Conditions
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 5 of 42
12 Grievances/ 
Complaints
a. Details of Grievance redressal officer -
https://www.sbigeneral.in/portal/grievance-redressal
b. IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System -
https://igms.irda.gov.in/
Insurance Ombudsman — The contact details of the Insurance 
Ombudsman offices have been provided as Annexure-B of Policy 
document
VI. Conditions
13 Insured's 
Rights
1. Free Look period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the 
policy shall be applicable at the inception.
2. Right to migrate from one product to another product of the 
company For Queries related to migration contact below:-
Toll free no. – 1800-22-1111
Email Id- Customer.care@sbigeneral.in
3. Right to port the from one company to another company.
For Queries related to portability contact below:-
Toll free no. – 1800-22-1111
Email Id- Customer.care@sbigeneral.in
VI. Conditions
14 Insured's
Obligations
Please disclose all pre-existing disease/s or condition/s before buying a 
policy. Non-disclosure may result in claim not being paid.
Benefit Illustration :
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 6 of 42
(LEGAL DISCLAIMER) NOTE: The information must be read in conjunction with the product brochure and policy 
document. In case of any conflict between the Customer Information Sheet and the policy document the terms 
and conditions mentioned in the policy document shall prevail.
Age of
the
members
insured
Premiu
m (Rs.)
Sum
Insured
(Rs.)
Premi
um
(Rs.)
Discou
nt, if
any
Family
memb
er
discou
nt)
Premi
um
after
Discou
nt (Rs.)
Sum
Insured
(Rs.)
Premi
um or
consoli
dated
premi
um for
all
memb
ers of
family
(Rs.)
Floater
discou
nt if
any
Premi
um
after
discou
nt
(Rs.)
Sum
Insured
(Rs.)
35 yrs 9385 10,00,000 9385 7.50% 8681 10,00,000 9385
30 yrs 9385 10,00,000 9385 7.50% 8681 10,00,000 9385
15 yrs 7433 10,00,000 7433 7.50% 6875.5 10,00,000 7433
10 yrs 7433 10,00,000 7433 7.50% 6875.5 10,00,000 7433
Total Premium for all members
of the Family is Rs. 33636/-
when each member is covered
separately.
Sum Insured available for each
individual is Rs.10,00,000/-
Total Premium for all members of
the Family is Rs. 31113/- when they
are covered under a single policy.
Sum Insured available for each
family member is Rs. 10,00,000/-
Total Premium when policy is opted
on floater basis is Rs. 26909/-
Sum Insured of Rs. 10,00,000/- is
Note: available for the entire family.
considering any loading. Also, the premium rates are exclusive of taxes applicable.
AROGYA PREMIERE 
Coverage opted on
individual basis
covering each
member of the
family separately
(at a single point in
time)
Coverage opted on individual basis
covering multiple members of the
family under a single policy (Sum
Insured is available for each member
of the family)
Coverage opted on family floater
basis with overall Sum Insured (Only
one Sum Insured is available for the
entire family)
20% 26909 10,00,000
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 7 of 42
AROGYA PREMIER POLICY
I. PREAMBLE
This Policy is issued to the Insured based on the proposal and declaration together with any statement, report or 
other document which shall be the basis of this contract and shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, upon
payment of the premium to Insurer and the realisation thereof by the Insurer. This Policy records the agreement 
between Insurer and Insured and sets out the terms of insurance and the obligations of each party.
II. OPERATIVE CLAUSE
Subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and definitions contained herein or endorsed or otherwise expressed 
hereon, Insurer undertakes to indemnify the Insured the medical expenses which are medically necessary and 
mentioned in scope of cover up to the Sum Insured for the Insured as mentioned in the schedule of the Policy. 
III. DEFINITIONS
The following words or terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them wherever they appear in this Policy, and 
references to the singular or to the masculine shall include references to the plural and to the feminine and vice 
versa, wherever the context so permits:
1. Accident
An accident is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means.
2. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment
procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the 
following.
a) Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or
b) Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council 
of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy;
Or
c) AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system 
of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision 
of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clocks;
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out,
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company's authorized representative.
3. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary
Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the 
local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and 
medical or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with all the following 
criterion:
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 8 of 42
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has
equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried
out;
Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible
to the insurance company’s authorized representative.
4. Alternative treatments
Alternative treatments are forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or "modem medicine" 
and includes Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy in the Indian context
5. Any one illness
Any one illness means continuous period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days from the date of 
last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may have been taken.
6. Cashless facility
"Cashless facility” means a facility extended by the Insurer to the Insured where the payments, of the 
costs of treatment undergone by the Insured in accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are 
directly made to the network provider by the Insurer to the extent pre-authorization approved.
7. Condition Precedent
Condition Precedent shall mean a Policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the 
Policy is conditional upon.
8. Congenital Anomaly
Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position.
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly
Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body
b. External Congenital Anomaly
Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body
This clause shall not apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis.
9. Co-payment
A co-payment is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 
policyholder/Insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A co-payment does 
not reduce the Sum Insured.
10. Cumulative Bonus
Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase in the Sum Insured granted by the Insurer without an 
associated increase in premium.
11. Day Care Centre
A day care centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a 
medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must 
comply with all minimum criteria as under—
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 9 of 42
a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
b. has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge;
c. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
d. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel
12. Day Care Treatment
Day care treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure listed in annexure C which is:
a. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 24 hrs 
because of technological advancement, and
b. which would have otherwise required hospitalization of more than 24 hours. 
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.
13. Deductible
Deductible is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the Insurer 
will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a specified number of 
days/ hours in case of hospital daily cash policy which will apply before any benefits are payable by the 
Insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
Deductible will be applicable as specified under the Policy.
14. Dental Treatment
Dental treatment is treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, fillings (where 
appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery excluding any form of cosmetic surgery/implants.
15. Disclosure to information norm
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of 
mis-representation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact.
16. Domiciliary Hospitalisation
Domiciliary hospitalization means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal 
course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under 
any of the following circumstances:
a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, 
or
b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a hospital.
17. Emergency Care
Emergency care means management for a severe illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur 
suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or 
serious long term impairment of the Insured person’s health.
18. Grace Period
Grace period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of continuity benefits 
such as waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for 
which no premium is received.
19. Hospital
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 10 of 42
A hospital means any institution established for In-patient care and day care treatment of illness and/or 
injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under:
a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
b. has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 
in-patient beds in all other places;
c. has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
e. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance company’s 
authorized personnel.
20. Hospitalisation
Means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 In patient Care consecutive ‘In-patient Care’ 
hours except for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less 
than 24 consecutive hours.
21. Illness
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and requires medical treatment. 
a. Acute Condition- Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before 
suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery.
b. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or 
more of the following characteristics:—
1. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, checkups, and / or tests—
2. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms—
3. it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it—
4. it continues indefinitely—
5. it recurs or is likely to recur
22. Injury
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by 
external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
23. Inpatient Care
Inpatient care means treatment for which the Insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 
hours for a covered event. 
24. Intensive Care Unit
Intensive care unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and 
where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the 
ordinary and other wards.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 11 of 42
25. Maternity Expenses
Maternity expenses shall include—
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth ( including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization).
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period.
26. Medical Advise
Any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any prescription or repeat 
prescription.
27. Medical expenses
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured person has necessarily and actually incurred for 
medical treatment on account of Illness or accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as 
these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured person had not been insured and no 
more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical 
treatment.
28. Medical Practitioner
A Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of 
India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is 
acting within the scope and jurisdiction of licence.’
29. Medically Necessary
Medically necessary treatment is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part 
of a stay in hospital which
a. is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the Insured;
b. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical 
care in scope, duration, or intensity;
c. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner,
d. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or 
by the medical community in India.
30. Migration” means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under 
family cover and members of group health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing 
conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.
31. Network Provider
"Network Provider” means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an Insurer or by a TPA and 
Insurer together to provide medical services to an Insured on payment by a cashless facility.
32. New-born baby 
New-born baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged between 1 day and 90 days, both 
days inclusive.
33. Non- Network
Any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the network.
34. Notification of Claim 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 12 of 42
Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication.
35. OPD treatment
OPD treatment is one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a consultation 
room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not 
admitted as a day care or in-patient.
36. Portability
Portability” means, the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all members 
under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, 
from one insurer to another insurer.
37. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses
Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined
number of days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person’s hospitalization 
was required, and
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the
insurance company.
38. Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 
48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement.
39. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses
Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined number of 
days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization 
was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.
40. Qualified Nurse
Qualified nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing 
Council of any State in India.
41. Reasonable and Customary Charges
Reasonable and Customary charges mean the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard 
charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for 
identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the illness / injury involved .
42. Renewal
Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a 
provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 13 of 42
existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods Room Rent
43. Room Rent
means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall include the 
associated medical expenses.
44. Surgery or Surgical Procedure
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of 
an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of 
suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner
45. Unproven/Experimental treatment
Treatment including drug experimental therapy which is not based on established medical practice in 
India, is treatment experimental or unproven.
46. Administrator
Administrator means any third party administrator (TPA) engaged by the Insurer for providing policy and 
claims facilitation services to the Insured as well as to the Insurer and who is duly licensed by IRDA for the 
said purpose.
47. Age
Age means completed years as at the commencement date of the Policy Period.
48. Diagnostic centre
Diagnostic centre means the diagnostic centrers which have been empanelled by Insurer (or 
administrator) as per the latest version of the schedule of diagnostic centrer maintained by Insurer, 
which is available to Insured on request.
49. Epidemic disease
Epidemic disease means a disease which occurs when new cases of a certain disease, in a given human 
population, and during a given period, substantially exceed what is the normal "expected" incidence rate 
based on recent experience (the number of new cases in the population during a specified period of time 
is called the "incidence rate").
50. Family
Family means the spouse, dependent children, parents and parents in law.
51. Family Cover 
a. “Family floater cover” means the cover under the Policy which is available in aggregate not 
separately for all members of family who are specified as Insureds in Policy Schedule and which can 
be used by all or any of them.
b. “Family non floater cover” means the cover under the Policy which is available separately for all 
members of family who are specified as Insureds in Policy Schedule.
52. Group
Group means any association of persons who assemble together with a commonality of purpose or 
engaging in a common economic activity like employees of a company. Non-employer-employee groups, 
like employee associations, holders of credit cards issued by a specific company, customers of a particular 
business where insurance is offered as an add on benefit, borrowers of a bank, professional associations 
or societies may also be treated as a group. However, an association of persons coming together with a 
purpose of availing an insurance cover, will not be treated as a group for the purpose of this Policy.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 14 of 42
53. Insured 
Insured means a person named as Insured in the Policy Schedule.
54. Insurer
Insurer means SBI General Insurance Company Limited.
55. Mental illness/ disease 
Mental illness/ disease means any mental disease or bodily condition marked by disorganization of 
personality, mind, and emotions to impair the normal psychological, social or work performance of the 
individual regardless of its cause or origin.
56. Other insurer 
Other insurer means any of the registered insurers in India other than SBI General Insurance Company 
Limited.
57. Package service expenses
Package service expenses means expenses levied by the hospital/nursing home for treatment of specific 
surgical procedures/medical ailments as a lump sum amount under agreed package charges based on the 
room criteria as defined in the tariff schedule of the hospital.
58. Policy
Policy means the complete documents consisting of the Policy wording, Schedule and endorsements and 
attachments if any.
59. Policy Period
Policy Period means the period commencing with the commencement date of the Policy and terminating 
with the expiry date of the Policy as stated in the Policy Schedule.
60. Proposal 
Proposal means application form which the Insured duly fills in and signs for this insurance and any other 
information Insured provides in the said form or otherwise to Insurer. 
61. Proposer
Proposer means the person furnishing complete details and information in the proposal form for availing 
the benefits either for himself and/or towards the person to be covered under the Policy and consents to 
the terms of the contract of insurance by way of signing the same.
62. Schedule 
Schedule means that portion of the Policy which sets out Insured’s details, the type of insurance cover in 
force, the Policy Period and the Sum Insured. Any annexure and/or endorsement to the Schedule shall 
also be a part of the Schedule.
63. Sum Insured
Sum Insured means the specified amount mentioned in the Schedule to this Policy which represents the 
Insurer’s maximum liability for any or all claims under this Policy during the currency of the Policy subject 
to terms and conditions.
64. Tele-consultation
means engagement between licensed tele-consultation service provider/ professional and the insured/ 
covered member that is provided via a range of technology enabled communication media other than faceto-face interactions, such as telephone, internet, and others.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 15 of 42
IV. SCOPE OF COVER
If the Insured suffers an illness/disease and/or injury during the Policy Period, this Policy covers below 
medical expenses incurred for medical treatment arising out of that illness/disease and/or injury: 
1. Eligible hospitalisation expenses: - while the Insured was under inpatient care medical expenses incurred
for:
a. Room rent, boarding expenses 
b. Medical practitioners fees(including Teleconsultation )
c. Intensive care unit
d. Nursing expenses
e. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre expenses, surgical appliances, medicines & 
consumables, diagnostic expenses and x-ray, dialysis, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, cost of 
pacemaker, prosthesis/internal implants and any medical expenses incurred which is integral 
part of the operation
f. Physiotherapy as inpatient care and being part of the treatment
g. Drugs, medicines and consumables consumed during hospitalization period.
h. Diagnostic procedures
i. Dressing, ordinary splints and plaster casts.
2. Pre-hospitalisation expenses: - the maximum amount that can be claimed under this head is limited to 
60 days for each of the admitted hospitalisation and domiciliary hospitalization claims under the Policy.
3. Post-hospitalisation expenses: - the maximum amount that can be claimed under this head is limited to 
90 days for each of the admitted hospitalization and domiciliary hospitalization claims under the Policy.
4. Day care expenses: Insurer shall pay for day care expenses incurred on technological surgeries and 
procedures requiring less than 24 hours of hospitalisation up to the Sum Insured.
5. Ambulance expenses: - - Actual ambulance expenses including air ambulance or INR 1,00,000 whichever 
is lower will be reimbursed for per valid hospitalization claim for transferring insured to or between 
Hospitals in the Hospital’s ambulance or in an ambulance provided by any ambulance service provider
6. Alternative treatment: - taken in a government hospital or in any institute recognized by government 
and/or accredited by quality council of India/national accreditation board on health.
7. Domiciliary hospitalisation: - Insurer will cover reasonable and customary charges towards domiciliary 
hospitalisation including pre and post hospitalization expenses.
Domiciliary hospitalization means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal 
course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under 
any of the following circumstances:
a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, or
b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a hospital.
8. Maternity Expenses: - Insurer will cover reasonable and customary charges towards maternity expenses 
during hospitalisation.
9. Organ donor: - the medical expenses for an organ donor’s treatment for the harvesting of the organ 
donated including pre and post hospitalization as stated in scope of cover above, provided that:
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 16 of 42
a. The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made available in accordance and in 
compliance with the Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 and the organ donated is for the 
use of the Insured, and
b. Insurer have accepted an inpatient hospitalisation claim under “Inpatient care” as mentioned 
under “Eligible hospitalisation expenses”.
10. Health check up: the Insurer will reimburse health check up expenses up to INR.5000/- per Insured, after 
each 4 consecutive claim free years of policy renewed continuously.
Entitlement of free health check up will be considered separately for each and every Insured. If claim is 
made by any of Insured in case of family floater cover, then the Policy Period will not be considered 
claim free for all of family members.
11. Reinstatement of Sum Insured: - the Insurer will reinstate the Sum Insured up to 100% of the basic Sum 
Insured when the Sum Insured gets reduced due to claim.
12. Cumulative Bonus: - cumulative bonus will be allowed at the rate of 10% of expiring Policy’s Sum Insured
on every renewal of claim free policy. This cumulative bonus can be accumulated up to 50% and will get 
reduced by 10% in case of claim under the Policy. But accumulated cumulative bonus cannot be 
negative.
Entitlement of cumulative bonus will be considered separately for each and every Insured but in case of 
family floater cover If claim is made by any of Insured, then in the subsequent Policy Period the 
cumulative bonus will be decreased by 10% of the Sum Insured.
In case of long term policy cumulative bonus will be allowed or reduced, as the case may be, at the end 
of every ‘policy year’
Admissibility of certain incidental expenses will be as per Standard List of Excluded expenses in 
Hospitalisation indemnity policies as per IRDA health Insurance guidelines - Annexure B.
13. HIV/AIDS Cover: We will cover expenses incurred for Inpatient treatment due to any condition caused 
by or associated with human immunodeficiency virus or variant/mutant viruses and or any syndrome or 
condition of a similar kind commonly referred to as AIDS upto Sum Insured as specified in Policy 
Schedule, except for the conditions which are permanently excluded
14. Mental Illness Cover: If Insured is hospitalized for any Mental Illness contracted during the Policy Period, 
We will pay Medical Expenses -upto the limit as specified in Policy Schedule, under Section 1 in 
accordance with The Mental Health Care Act, 2017, subsequent amendments and other applicable laws 
and Rules provided that; 
i. The Hospitalization is prescribed by a Medical Practitioner for Mental Illness 
ii. The Hospitalization is done in Mental Health Establishment
Sub-limit:
a. The following disorders / conditions shall be covered only up to Rs. 1,00,000/-. This sub-limit shall 
apply for all the following disorders / conditions on cumulative basis.
b. Pre-hospitalization and Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses are also covered within the overall 
benefit sub-limit as specified above in point (a).
Disorder / Condition Description
Severe Depression
Severe depression is characterized by a persistent feeling of sadness or a 
lack of interest in outside stimuli. It affects the way one feels, thinks, and 
behaves.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 17 of 42
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia is mental disorder, that distorts the way a person thinks, 
acts, expresses emotions, perceives reality, and relates to others. 
Schizophrenia result in combination of hallucinations, delusions, and 
extremely disordered thinking and behaviour that impairs daily 
functioning,
Bipolar Disorder
Bipolar disorder is a mental illness that brings severe high and low 
moods and changes in sleep, energy, thinking, and behaviour. It includes 
periods of extreme mood swings with emotional highs and lows.
Post-traumatic stress disorder
Post-traumatic stress disorder is an anxiety disorder caused by very 
stressful, frightening, or distressing events. It includes flashbacks, 
nightmares, severe anxiety and uncontrollable thoughts about the event.
Eating disorder
Eating disorder is a mental condition where people experience severe 
disturbances in their eating behaviours and related thoughts and 
emotions.
Generalized anxiety disorder Generalized Anxiety Disorder is a mental health disorder characterized 
by a perpetual state of worry, fear, apprehension, inability to relax.
Obsessive compulsive disorders
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is an anxiety disorder in which people 
have recurring, unwanted thoughts, ideas or sensations (obsessions) that 
make them feel driven to do something repetitively (compulsions).
Panic disorders
Panic disorder is an anxiety disorder characterized by reoccurring 
unexpected panic attacks with sudden periods of intense fear. It may 
include palpitations, sweating, shaking, shortness of breath, numbness, 
or a feeling that something terrible is going to happen.
Personality disorders
Personality disorder is a type of mental disorder in which people have a 
rigid and unhealthy pattern of thinking, functioning and behaving. It 
includes trouble in perceiving and relating to situations and people.
Conversion disorders
Conversion disorder is a type of mental disorder where mental or 
emotional distress causes physical symptoms without the existence of an 
actual physical condition.
Dissociative disorders
Dissociative disorders are mental disorders that involve experiencing a 
disconnection and lack of continuity between thoughts, memories, 
surroundings, actions and identity
*ICD codes for the above disorders / conditions are provided below.
What is not covered:
a. Treatment related to intentional self-inflicted Injury or attempted suicide by any means.
b. Treatment and complications related to disorders of intoxication, dependence, abuse, and 
withdrawal caused by drugs and other substances such as alcohol, opioids or nicotine.
*
ICD Codes Disorder / Condition
F33.0, F33.1, F33.2, F33.4, F33.5, F33.6, F33.7, F33.8,
F33.9, O90.6, F34.1, F32.81, F32.0, F32.1, F32.2,
Severe Depression
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 18 of 42
F32.4, F32.5, F32.6, F32.7, 32.8, F32.9, F33.9, F30.0,
F30.1, F30.2, F30.4, F30.5, F30.6, F30.7, F30.8,
F30.9, F32.3, F33.3, F43.21, F32.8, F33.40, F32.9
F20.0, F20.1, F20.2, F20.3, F20.5, F21, F22, F23, F24,
F20.8, F25.0, F25.1, F25.8, F25.9 Schizophrenia
F31.0, F31.1, F31.2, F31.4, F31.5, F31.6, F31.7, F31.8,
F31.9 Bipolar Disorder
F43.0, F43.1, F43.2, F43.8, F43.9 Post-traumatic stress disorder
F40.1, F41.0, F40.2, F40.8, F40.9, F41.1, F41.3, F41.8 Generalized anxiety disorder
F50.0, F50.2, F50.8, F98.3, F98.21, F50.8 Eating disorder
F42 Obsessive compulsive disorders
F41.1, F40.1, F60.7, F93.0, F94.0 Panic disorders
F60.0, F60.1, F60.2, F60.3, F60.4, F60.8, F60.6, F60.7, F60.5 Personality disorders
F44.4, F44.5, F44.6, F44.7 Conversion disorders
F44.5, F44.8, F48.1, F44.1, F44.2 Dissociative disorders
15. Genetic Disorders or Diseases are covered up to the Limit Rs. 1,00,000
16. Internal Congenital Diseases are Covered upto the Limit Rs. 10% of Sum Insured.
17. The following procedures will be covered (wherever medically indicated) either as in patient or as part of 
day care treatment in a hospital up to 50% of -of Sum Insured, specified in the policy schedule, during the 
policy period: 
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High Intensity Focused Ultrasound) 
B. Balloon Sinuplasty 
C. Deep Brain Stimulation 
D. Oral Chemotherapy 
E. Immunotherapy - Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 
F. Intra Vitreal Injections 
G. Robotic Surgeries 
H. Stereotactic Radio Surgeries 
I. Bronchial Thermoplasty 
J. Vaporisation of the Prostrate ( Green Laser Treatment or Holmium Laser Treatment) 
K. IONM - (lntra Operative Neuro Monitoring)
L. Stem Cell Therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological 
conditions to be covered
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 19 of 42
V. EXCLUSIONS: -
Insurer will not pay expenses incurred by the Insured in respect of claims arising out of or howsoever 
related to any of the following:
1. Pre-Existing Diseases (Code- Excl01)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first 
policy with us.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum insured 
increase.
c) If the insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of 
the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to 
the extent of prior coverage
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the 
same being declared at the time of application and accepted by us.
2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period- (Code- Excl02)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until 
the expiry of 90 Days/12 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first policy 
with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an accident.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured 
increase.
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-Existing diseases, 
then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or declared and 
accepted without a specific exclusion.
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms 
on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of 
prior coverage.
f) List of specific diseases/procedures
i. 12 Months waiting Period
• Any types of gastric or duodenal ulcers;
• Tonsillectomy, Adenoidectomy, Mastoidectomy, Tympanoplasty;
• Surgery on all internal or external tumour /cysts/nodules/polyps of any kind including breast 
lumps;
• All types of Hernia and Hydrocele;
• Anal Fissures, Fistula and Piles;
• Cataract;
• Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy;
• Hysterectomy/ myomectomy for menorrhagia or fibromyoma or prolapse of uterus;
• Non infective Arthritis, Treatment of Spondylosis / Spondylitis, Gout & Rheumatism; 
• Surgery of Genitourinary tract;
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 20 of 42
• Calculus Diseases; 
• Sinusitis, nasal disorders and related disorders;
• Gall bladder stones
• Surgery for prolapsed intervertebral disc unless arising from accident;
• Vertebro-spinal disorders (including disc) and knee conditions;
• Surgery of varicose veins and varicose ulcers;
• Chronic Renal failure; 
• Medical Expenses incurred in connection with joint replacement surgery due to Degenerative 
condition, Age related osteoarthritis and Osteoporosis unless such Joint replacement surgery 
unless necessitated by accidental bodily injury.
ii. 90 Days Waiting Period
• Hypertension, Heart Disease and related complications; 
• Diabetes and related complications;
3. 30-day waiting period- (Code- Excl03 )
▪ Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the 
same are covered.
▪ This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for more 
than twelve months.
▪ The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the event 
of granting higher sum insured subsequently.
4. Maternity Expenses - Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy in connection with or 
in respect of maternity expenses within first 9 months from the date of inception of the Policy. However this 
9 months exclusion would not be applicable in case of continuous renewal within grace period, up to Sum 
Insured and/or limit under previous policy.
5. Treatment taken outside India.
6. War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, 
unrest, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalisation or 
requisition of or damage by or under the order of any government or public local authority.
7. Injury or disease directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/materials.
8. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of a disease, illness or injury not excluded hereunder, or, as may 
be necessitated due to an accident 
9. Refractive Error: (Code- Excl15)
 Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres.
10. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: (Code- Excl08)
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 21 of 42
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to 
remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it 
must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner.
11. The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, wheelchairs, artificial limbs, dentures, artificial 
teeth and all other external appliances , prosthesis and/or devices.
12. Expenses incurred on items for personal comfort like television, telephone, etc. Incurred during 
hospitalization and which have been specifically charged for in the hospitalisation bills issued by the 
hospital/nursing home. 
13. External medical equipment of any kind used at home as post hospitalisation care including cost of 
instrument used in the treatment of sleep apnoea syndrome (C.P.A.P), continuous ambulatory peritoneal 
dialysis (C.A.P.D) and oxygen concentrator for bronchial asthmatic condition.
14. Dental treatment or surgery of any kind unless required as a result of accidental bodily injury to teeth 
requiring hospitalization treatment.
15. Convalescence, general debility, “run-down” condition, rest cure, i/external congenital anomaly.
16. Intentional self-injury and suicide (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or 
alcohol) 
17. Breach of law: (Code- Excl10)
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person committing or 
attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent.
18. Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof.
(Code- Excl12)
19. Venereal disease or any sexually transmitted disease or sickness. (excluding HIV / AIDS as mentioned under 
scope of cover)
20. Outpatient department treatment
21. Sterility and Infertility: (Code- Excl17)
 Expenses related to sterility and infertility this includes:
i. Any type of sterilization
ii. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT ICSI
iii. Gestational Surrogacy
iv. Reversal of sterilization
22. Vaccination or inoculation except as part of post-bite treatment for animal bite.
23. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to 
Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of 
hospitalization claim or day care procedure. (Code- Excl14)
24. Surgery to correct deviated septum and hypertrophied turbinate unless necessitated by an accidental body 
injury.
25. Medical practitioner’s home visit expenses during pre and post hospitalization period, attendant nursing 
expenses.
26. Change-of-Gender treatments: (Code- Excl07)
 Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 22 of 42
 to those of the opposite sex Outpatient department treatment
27. Hazardous or Adventure sports: (Code- Excl09)
 Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or 
 adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor 
 racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving.
28. Stay in a hospital without undertaking any active regular treatment by the medical practitioner, which 
ordinarily cannot be given without hospitalization. 
29. Expenses incurred at hospital or nursing home primarily for diagnosis irrespective of 24 hours hospitalization 
without diagnosis of any disease which does require any follow up treatment covered under this policy. 
30. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds 
registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or 
partly for domestic reasons. (Code- Excl13)
31. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code- Excl05)
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. 
This also includes:
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled 
nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs.
32. Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04)
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily tor diagnostics and evaluation purposes.
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the Current diagnosis and 
treatment
33. Hospitalization for donation of any body organs by an Insured including complications arising from the 
donation of organs.
34. Obesity/ Weight Control: (Code- Excl06)
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
4) Body Mass Index (BMI);
a) greater than or equal to 40 or
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities
following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
ii. Coronary heart disease
iii. Severe Sleep Apn
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
35. Unproven Treatments: (Code- Excl16)
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 23 of 42
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical 
documentation to support their effectiveness.
36. Disease / illness or injury whilst performing duties as a serving member of a military or police force.
37. Any kind of, surcharges, admission fees / registration charges etc levied by the hospital.
38. In respect of the existing diseases, disclosed by the insured and mentioned in the policy schedule (based on 
insured's consent), policyholder is not entitled to get the coverage for specified ICD codes.
VI. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT: -
1. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.
2. Disclosure to Information Norm:
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure ofany material fact by the policyholder.
(Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the 
company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the 
context of underwriting the risk)
3. Due care: where this Policy requires Insured to do or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of 
that requirement by the Insured or someone claiming on Insured’s behalf is a condition precedent to any 
obligation under this Policy. If the Insured or someone claiming on Insured’s behalf fails to completely satisfy 
that requirement, then Insurer may refuse to consider Insured’s claim. Insured will cooperate with Insurer at 
all times.
4. Complete Discharge
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or 
assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge 
towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim.
5. Free look period
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at 
the time of porting/migrating the policy.
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of 
the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the 
same if not acceptable.
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the 
insured person and the stamp duty charges or
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured 
person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 24 of 42
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate 
with the insurance coverage during such period;
6. Notices: Any notice, direction or instruction under this Policy shall be in writing and if it is to:
a. Any Insured, then it shall be sent to Proposer’s address specified in the Schedule to this Policy and 
Proposer shall act for all Insureds for these purposes. 
b. Insurer, it shall be delivered to Insurer’s address specified in the Schedule to this Policy. No insurance
agents, brokers or other person or entity is authorised to receive any notice, direction or instruction on 
Insurer’s behalf unless Insurer has expressly stated to the contrary in writing.
Insured must notify Insurer of any change in address.
7. Mis-description: - this Policy shall be void and premium paid shall be forfeited to Insurer in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any materials facts pertaining to the proposal form, 
written declarations or any other communication exchanged for the sake of obtaining the insurance policy by 
the Insured. Non-disclosure shall include non-intimation of any circumstances which may affect the insurance 
cover granted. The misrepresentation, mis-description and non-disclosure is related to the information 
provided by the proposer/Insured to the Insurer at any point of time starting from seeking the insurance 
cover in the form of submitting the filled in Proposal form, written declarations or any other communication 
exchanged for the sake of obtaining the insurance policy and ends only after all the contractual obligations 
under the Policy are exhausted for both the parties under the contract.
8. Reasonable Care: We are not obliged to make payment for any claim or that part of any claim that could have 
been avoided or reduced if the Insured had taken reasonable care, or that is brought about or contributed to 
by the Insured failing to follow the directions, advice or guidance provided by a Medical Practitioner.
9. Package service expenses: as defined under the Policy will be payable only if prior approval for the said 
package service is provided by administrator / Insurer upon the request of the Insured.
10. Unhindered access: the Insured shall extend all possible support & co-operation including necessary 
authorisation to the Insurer for accessing the medical records and medical practitioners who have attended 
to the patient.
11. Claims Procedures :
a. Claims Procedure for Reimbursement :
i. The Insured shall without any delay consult a doctor and follow the advice and treatment 
recommended, take reasonable steps to minimize the quantum of any claim that might be made 
under this Policy and intimation to this effect must be forwarded to administrator accordingly.
ii. The Insured must provide intimation to administrator immediately and in any event within 48 hours 
from the date of Hospitalisation. However the administrator at his sole discretion may relax this 
condition subject to a justifiable reason/evidence being produced by the Insured on the reasons for 
such a delay beyond the stipulated 48 hours up to a maximum period of 7 days. 
iii. The Insured has to file the claim with all necessary documentation within 15 days of discharge from 
the hospital, provide administrator with written details of the quantum of any claim along with all the 
original bills, receipts and other documents upon which a claim is based and shall also give 
administrator such additional information and assistance as administrator may require in dealing with 
the claim. In case of delayed submission of claim and in absence of a justified reason for delayed 
submission of claim, the administrator would have the right of not considering the claim for 
reimbursement.
iv. In respect of post hospitalization claims, the claims must be lodged within 15 days from the 
completion of post hospitalisation treatment subject to maximum of 105 days from the date of 
discharge from hospital.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 25 of 42
v. The Insured shall submit himself for examination by the administrator’s medical advisors as often as 
may be considered necessary by the administrator for establishing the liability under the Policy. The 
administrator will reimburse the amount towards the expenses incurred for the said medical 
examination to the Insured.
vi. The Insured must submit all original bills, receipts, certificates, information and evidences from the 
attending medical practitioner /hospital /diagnostic laboratory as required by administrator.
vii. On receipt of intimation from the Insured regarding a claim under the Policy, administrator is entitled 
to carry out examination and obtain information on any alleged Injury or disease requiring 
hospitalisation if and when Insurer may reasonably require.
b. Claims procedure for Cashless:
i) Prior to taking treatment and/or incurring medical expenses at a network hospital, Insured must call 
administrator and request pre-authorisation by way of the written form administrator will provide.
ii) After considering Insured’s request and after obtaining any further information or documentation 
administrator has sought, administrator may if satisfied send Insured or the network hospital, an 
authorisation letter. The authorisation letter, the ID card issued to Insured along with this Policy and 
any other information or documentation that administrator has specified must be produced to the 
network hospital identified in the pre-authorisation letter at the time of Insured’s admission to the 
same.
iii) If the procedure above is followed, Insured will not be required to directly pay for the medical 
expenses in the network hospital that Insurer is liable to indemnify under cover IV.1 above and the 
original bills and evidence of treatment in respect of the same shall be left with the network hospital. 
Pre-authorisation does not guarantee that all costs and expenses will be covered. administrator
reserves the right to review each claim for medical expenses and accordingly coverage will be 
determined according to the terms and conditions of this Policy. Insured will, in any event, be 
required to settle all other expenses directly.
c. Claims Submission:
The Insured will submit the claim documents to administrator. Following is the document list for claim 
submission:
i) Duly filled Claim form, 
ii) Valid Photo Identity Card, residence proof and 2 recent photos of Insured and/or his nominee.
iii) Original Discharge card/certificate/ death summary
iv) Copies of prescription for diagnostic test, treatment advise, medical references
v) Original set of investigation reports
vi) Itemized original hospital bill and receipts Hospital and related original medical expense receipt 
Pharmacy bills in original with prescriptions
d. Claims processing: on receipt of claim documents from Insured, administrator shall assess the 
admissibility of claim as per policy terms and conditions. Upon satisfactory completion of assessment 
and admission of claim, the Insurer will make the payment of claim as per the contract only in Indian 
Rupees and within India only. In case if the claim is repudiated Insurer will inform the claimant about the 
same in writing with reason for repudiation. 
e. Penal interest provision: 
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of 
last necessary document.
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 26 of 42
policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a 
rate 2%bove the bank rate.
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it 
shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the 
date of receipt of last necessary document- ln such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim 
within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.
iv. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder 
at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of oreceipt of last necessary document to the date of 
payment of claim.
f. Position after a claim: As from the day of receipt of the claim amount by the Insured, the Sum Insured for 
the remainder of the Policy Period shall stand reduced by a corresponding amount.
12. Fraud: 
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the 
insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits 
under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall 
be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and 
severally liable for such repayment to the insurer.
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the 
insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other pa(y acting on behalf of the insured 
person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy:
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured
person does not believe to be true;
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge
or belief of the fact;
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if 
the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge 
and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of 
material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer.
13. Nomination: The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose 
of payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination 
shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an 
endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the 
nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no 
subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be 
treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy.
14. Multiple Policies
i. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured during a period from the same or one or more insurers 
to indemnify treatment costs, the policyholder shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her 
claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer if chosen by the policy holder 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 27 of 42
shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the 
terms of the chosen policy.
ii. Policyholder having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for the 
amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies, even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then 
the Insurer(s) shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy.
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy after, the policyholder 
shall have the right to choose insurers from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
iv. Where an insured has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, 
the insured shall only be indemnified the hospitalization costs in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the chosen policy.
15. Cancellation:
i. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 1Sdays'written notice and in such an event, the 
Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.
Period on risk Rate of premium refunded
Up to one month 75% of annual rate
Up to three months 50%of annual rate
Up to six months 25% of annual rate
Exceeding six 
months
Nil
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otheruise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of 
Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed by the 
insured person under the policy.
ii. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non-disclosure of 
material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no refund 
of premium on cancellation on grounds or misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud.
Cancellation of long term Policies:
If a long term Policy issued with Policy period above 1 year is cancelled, than premium for the year which is 
fully utilised by insured will be retained in full by the Company. For current year, the premium will be 
refunded either on short period scale (If cancelled by the Insured) or on prorate basis (If cancelled by the 
Company). For the year which has not commenced, the premium will be refunded in full. Long term discount 
allowed on the Policy will be readjusted.
16. Termination of Policy: this Policy terminates on earliest of the following eventsa. Cancellation of Policy as per the cancellation provision.
b. On the Policy expiry date.
17. Arbitration & Conciliation: if any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this 
Policy ( liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions be 
referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to the 
dispute/difference, or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking 
arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of 3 arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be 
appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such 
two arbitrators and the arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 28 of 42
arbitration and conciliations act 1996.
It is hereby agreed and understood that no dispute or difference shall be referable to arbitration, as 
hereinbefore provided, if the Insurer has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this Policy.
It is expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon 
this Policy that the award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of the loss shall be first obtained.
The law of the arbitration shall be Indian law and the seat of the arbitration and venue for all the hearings 
shall be within India.
18. Renewal
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on misrepresentation by the insured person. grounds of 
fraud,
I. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal.
II. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in 
the preceding policy years.
III. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the 
end of the policy period.
IV. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not 
available during the grace period.
V. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience.
19. Withdrawal of product:
i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about 
the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. 
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company 
at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. 
as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break.
20. Migration
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans 
offered by the company by applying for migration of the policyatleast30 days before the policy renewal date 
as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered 
without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company, the insured person will 
get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
 https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1
21. Portability:
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the 
entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days 
from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. lf such person is presently covered and 
has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an lndian
General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as 
per IRDAI guidelines on portability.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 29 of 42
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link .
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1
22. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy lncluding the Premium Rates
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the 
premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.
23. Moratorium Period
After completion of eight continuous years under the policy no look back to be applied. This period of eight years 
is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the first policy and 
subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of sums insured 
only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable 
except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be 
subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract.
24. Disclaimer: if Insurer shall disclaim liability to the Insured for any claim hereunder and if the Insured shall not 
within 12 calendar months from the date of receipt of the notice of such disclaimer notify Insurer in writing 
that he does not accept such disclaimer and intends to recover his claim from Insurer then the claim shall for 
all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
25. Jurisdiction: - The Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be 
valid or effective unless approved in writing by Insurer, which approval shall be evidenced by an endorsement 
on the Schedule.
The construction, interpretation and meaning of the provisions of this Policy shall be determined in 
accordance with Indian law. The section headings of this Policy are included for descriptive purposes only 
and do not form part of this Policy for the purpose of its construction or interpretation.
26. Loading and Discount: -In case family is covered on floater basis maximum 20% discount will be given. 
Maximum 7.5% discount will also be given for long term policy and to cover family on non floater basis.
Premium will be loaded by 5% each for habit of smoking, alcohol and any other type of tobacco including 
betel nut in any form.
27. Tax Relief under Income-Tax Act: deduction under Income -Tax Act will be allowed on premium and amount 
eligible of deduction under Income-Tax Act is separately specified in Policy Schedule.
28. Redressal of Grievance
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through
Website: www.sbigeneral.in
Toll free: 1800 22 1111 / 1800 102 1111 Monday to Saturday (8 am - 8 pm).
E-mail: customer.care@sbigeneral.in
Fax : 1800 22 7244 / 1800 102 7244
Courier: 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 30 of 42
Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company’s branches with the details of 
grievance
If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, insured 
person may contact the grievance officer at gro@sbigeneral.in
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link https://www.sbigeneral.in/portal/grievanceredressal
If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the insured person 
may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal of 
grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017.
Office of Insurance the 
Ombudsman
Areas of Jurisdiction 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,
Ahmedabad – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
 Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar 
Haveli,Daman and Diu.
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
Karnataka.
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
JanakVihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,
Near New Market,
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in
 Madhya Pradesh, 
Chhattisgarh.
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chnadra Panda 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
Orissa.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 31 of 42
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,
Chandigarh – 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
Punjab,Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh,
Jammu & Kashmir,
Chandigarh.
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet,
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
Tamil Nadu,
Pondicherry Town and
Karaikal (which are part of UT of Pondicherry).
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,
Asaf Ali Road,
New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in
Delhi.
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in
Assam, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Mizoram,
Arunachal Pradesh,
Nagaland and Tripura.
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in
Andhra Pradesh,
Telangana,
Yanam and 
part of Territory of UT of Pondicherry.
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 32 of 42
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: Bimalokpal.jaiur@ecoi.co.in
Rajasthan.
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
Kerala, UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b)
Mahe-a part of UT of Pondicherry.
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
West Bengal,
Sikkim,
UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srvastava
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, 
Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, 
Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan SevaAnnexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in
Goa, 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
BhagwanSahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
U.P-201301.
State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of 
Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, 
Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 33 of 42
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, 
Saharanpur.
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in
Bihar,
Jharkhand.
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in
Maharashtra,
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/
Annexure B
List I — Items for which coverage is not available in the policy
Sr 
No
Item
1 BABY FOOD
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
3 BEAUTY SERVICES
4 BELTS/ BRACES
5 BUDS
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK
7 CARRY BAGS
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
10 LEGGINGS
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES
12 MINERAL WATER
13 SANITARY PAD
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES
15 GUEST SERVICES
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 34 of 42
16 CREPE BANDAGE
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
18 EYELET COLLAR
19 SLINGS
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED
22 Television Charges
23 SURCHARGES
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES
28 COURIER CHARGES
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
31 MEDICAL RECORDS
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
33 MORTUARY CHARGES
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
36 SPACER
37 SPIROMETRE
38 NEBULIZER KIT
39 STEAM INHALER
40 ARMSLING
41 THERMOMETER
42 CERVICAL COLLAR
43 SPLINT
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
53 SUGAR FREE Tablets
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable)
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 35 of 42
List II— Items that are to be subsumed into Room charges 
55 ECG ELECTRODES
56 GLOVES
57 NEBULISATION KIT
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
59 KIDNEY TRAY
60 MASK
61 OUNCE GLASS
62 OXYGEN MASK
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
64 PAN CAN
65 TROLLY COVER
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
67 AMBULANCE
68 VASOFIX SAFETY
Sl
No
Item
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
2 HAND WASH
3 SHOE COVER
4 CAPS
5 CRADLE CHARGES
6 COMB
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
8 FOOT COVER
9 GOWN
10 SLIPPERS
11 TISSUE PAPER
12 TOOTH PASTE
13 TOOTH BRUSH
14 BED PAN
15 FACE MASK
16 FLEXI MASK
17 HAND HOLDER
18 SPUTUM CUP
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
20 LUXURY TAX
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 36 of 42
List III. Items that are subsumed into procedure charges.
21 HVAC
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
25 CLEAN SHEET
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
27 ADMISSION KIT
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
Sl
No.
Item
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)
3 EYE PAD
4 EYE SHEILD
5 CAMERA COVER
6 DVD, CD CHARGES
7 GAUSE SOFT
8 GAUZE
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
11 MICROSCOPE COVER
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 37 of 42
List IV— Items that are to be subsumed into Cost of Treatment
13 SURGICAL DRILL
14 EYE KIT
15 EYE DRAPE
16 X-RAY FILM
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
18 COTTON
19 COTTON BANDAGE
20 SURGICAL TAPE
21 APRON
22 TORNIQUET
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
Sl
No.
Item
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
3 URINE CONTAINER
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES
5 BIPAP MACHINE
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES
10 HIV KIT
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
12 LOZENGES
13 MOUTH PAINT
14 VACCINATION CHARGES
15 ALCOHOL SWABES
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 38 of 42
Annexure C - Day Care List
The following are the listed Day care procedures and such other Surgical Procedures that necessitate less than 24 
hours Hospitalisation due to medical/technological advancement/ infrastructure facilities and the coverage of 
which is subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the policy
Microsurgical operations on the middle ear 
1. Stapedectomy
2. Revision of a stapedectomy
3. Other operations on the auditory ossicles
4. Myringoplasty (Type -I Tympanoplasty)
5. Tympanoplasty (closure of an eardrum perforation/reconstruction of the auditory ossicles)
6. Revision of a tympanoplasty
7. Other microsurgical operations on the middle ear
Other operations on the middle & internal ear
8. Myringotomy
9. Removal of a tympanic drain
10. Incision of the mastoid process and middle ear
11. Mastoidectomy
12. Reconstruction of the middle ear
13. Other excisions of the middle and inner ear
14. Fenestration of the inner ear
15. Revision of a fenestration of the inner ear
16. Incision (opening) and destruction (elimination) of the inner ear
17. Other operations on the middle and inner ear
17 Glucometer& Strips
18 URINE BAG
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 39 of 42
Operations on the nose & the nasal sinuses
18. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the nose
19. Operations on the turbinates (nasal concha)
20. Other operations on the nose
21. Nasal sinus aspiration
Operations on the eyes
22. Incision of tear glands
23. Other operations on the tear ducts
24. Incision of diseased eyelids
25. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the eyelid
26. Incision of diseased eyelids
27. Operations on the canthus and epicanthus
28. Corrective surgery for entropion and ectropion
29. Corrective surgery for blepharoptosis
30. Removal of a foreign body from the conjunctiva
31. Removal of a foreign body from the cornea
32. Incision of the cornea
33. Operations for pterygium
34. Other operations on the cornea
35. Removal of a foreign body from the lens of the eye
36. Removal of a foreign body from the posterior chamber of the eye
37. Removal of a foreign body from the orbit and eyeball
38. Operation of cataract
Operations on the skin & subcutaneous tissues
39. Incision of a pilonidal sinus
40. Other incisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
41. Surgical wound toilet (wound debridement) and removal of diseased tissue of the skin and subcutaneous 
tissues
42. Local excision of diseased tissue of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
43. Other excisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
44. Simple restoration of surface continuity of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
45. Free skin transplantation, donor site
46. Free skin transplantation, recipient site
47. Revision of skin plasty
48. Other restoration and reconstruction of the skin and subcutaneous tissues
49. Chemosurgery to the skin
50. Destruction of diseased tissue in the skin and subcutaneous tissues
Operations on the tongue
51. Incision, excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the tongue
52. Partial glossectomy
53. Glossectomy
54. Reconstruction of the tongue
55. Other operations on the tongue
Operations on the salivary glands & salivary ducts
56. Incision and lancing of a salivary gland and a salivary duct
57. Excision of diseased tissue of a salivary gland and a salivary duct
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 40 of 42
58. Resection of a salivary gland
59. Reconstruction of a salivary gland and a salivary duct
60. Other operations on the salivary glands and salivary ducts
Other operations on the mouth & face
61. External incision and drainage in the region of the mouth, jaw and face
62. Incision of the hard and soft palate
63. Excision and destruction of diseased hard and soft palate
64. Incision, excision and destruction in the mouth
65. Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth
66. Palatoplasty
67. Other operations in the mouth
Operations on the tonsils & adenoids
68. Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal abscess
69. Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy
70. Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy
71. Excision and destruction of a lingual tonsil
72. Other operations on the tonsils and adenoids
Trauma surgery and orthopaedics
73. Incision on bone, septic and aseptic
74. Closed reduction on fracture, luxation or epiphyseolysis with osteosynthesis
75. Suture and other operations on tendons and tendon sheath
76. Reduction of dislocation under GA
77. Arthroscopic knee aspiration
Operations on the breast
78. Incision of the breast
79. Operations on the nipple
Operations on the digestive tract
80. Incision and excision of tissue in the perianal region
81. Surgical treatment of anal fistulas
82. Surgical treatment of haemorrhoids
83. Division of the anal sphincter (sphincterotomy)
84. Other operations on the anus
85. Ultrasound guided aspirations
86. Sclerotherapy etc.
87. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Operations on the female sexual organs
88. Incision of the ovary
89. Insufflation of the Fallopian tubes
90. Other operations on the Fallopian tube
91. Dilatation of the cervical canal
92. Conisation of the uterine cervix
93. Other operations on the uterine cervix
94. Incision of the uterus (hysterotomy)
95. Therapeutic curettage
96. Culdotomy
97. Incision of the vagina
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 41 of 42
98. Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the vagina and the pouch of Douglas
99. Incision of the vulva 
100. Operations on Bartholin’s glands (cyst)
Operations on the prostate & seminal vesicles
101. Incision of the prostate
102. Transurethral excision and destruction of prostate tissue
103. Transurethral and percutaneous destruction of prostate tissue
104. Open surgical excision and destruction of prostate tissue
105. Radical prostatovesiculectomy
106. Other excision and destruction of prostate tissue
107. Operations on the seminal vesicles
108. Incision and excision of periprostatic tissue
109. Other operations on the prostate
Operations on the scrotum & tunica vaginalis testis
110. Incision of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis
111. Operation on a testicular hydrocele
112. Excision and destruction of diseased scrotal tissue
113. Plastic reconstruction of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis
114. Other operations on the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis
Operations on the testes
115. Incision of the testes
116. Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the testes
117. Unilateral orchidectomy
118. Bilateral orchidectomy
119. Orchidopexy
120. Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism
121. Surgical repositioning of an abdominal testis
122. Reconstruction of the testis
123. Implantation, exchange and removal of a testicular prosthesis
124. Other operations on the penis
Operations on the spermatic cord, epididymis und ductus deferens
125. Surgical treatment of a varicocele and a hydrocele of the spermatic cord
126. Excision in the area of the epididymis
127. Epididymectomy
128. Reconstruction of the spermatic cord
129. Reconstruction of the ductus deferens and epididymis
130. Other operations on the spermatic cord, epididymis and ductus deferens
Operations on the penis
131. Operations on the foreskin
132. Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the penis
133. Amputation of the penis
134. Plastic reconstruction of the penis
135. Other operations on the penis
Operations on the urinary system
136. Cystoscopical removal of stones
SBI General Insurance Company Limited
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited : Arogya Premier Policy UIN: SBIHLIP22136V032122 Page 42 of 42
Other Operations
137. Lithotripsy
138. Coronary angiography
139. Haemodialysis
140. Radiotherapy for Cancer
141. Cancer Chemotherapy