UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 1 of 24 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U66010PN2000PLC015329. IRDAI Registration No.113 
Regd. Office & Head Office: Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006 
AROGYA SANJEEVANI POLICY, BAJAJ ALLIANZ GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED 
(GROUP) 
Policy Wordings 
1. PREAMBLE
This Group Policy is a contract of insurance issued by Bajaj Allianz Insurance Co. Ltd. (hereinafter called the 
‘Company’ or “Insurer” or “Insurance Company” or “Us” or “Our”) to the Proposer/Insured mentioned in the Group 
Policy Schedule (hereinafter called the ‘Insured’ or “Policy Holder” or “Insured” or “Group Manager”) to cover the 
person(s) named in the Certificate of Insurance (hereinafter called the ‘Insured Beneficiary/ Insured Beneficiary/ies’). 
The Group Policy is based on the statements and declaration provided in the Proposal Form/ or Proposal as 
mentioned in the transcript of the Proposal of Insured or as per MOU signed by Group Manager with the Insurer,
and is subject to receipt of the requisite premium. The COI is based on the statements and declaration provided in the 
Proposal Form/ or Proposal as mentioned in the transcript of the Proposal of Insured signed by Insured 
Beneficiary with the Insurer or as per details provided by Group Manager, and is subject to receipt of the requisite 
premium. 
 
2. OPERATIVE CLAUSE
If during the Cover Period one or more Insured Beneficiary/ies is required to be Hospitalised for treatment of an Illness 
or Injury at a Hospital/ Day Care Center, following Medical Advice of a duly qualified Medical Practitioner, the Company 
shall indemnify Medically Necessary expenses towards the Coverage mentioned in the Certificate of Insurance read 
with the Group Policy. 
Provided further that, any amount payable under the Certificate of Insurance shall be subject to the terms of coverage 
(including any co-pay, sub limits), exclusions, conditions and definitions contained herein. Maximum liability of the 
Company under all such Claims during each Policy Year shall be the Sum Insured (Individual or Floater) opted and 
Cumulative Bonus (if any) specified in the Certificate of Insurance. 
Types of Certificate of Insurance: 
“Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited -Individual” 
“Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited -Family Floater” 
Tenure of Certificate of Insurance: 
“Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited -Individual”: 1year 
“Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited -Family Floater”: 1year 
3. DEFINITIONS 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Group Policy or Certificate of Insurance shall have the meanings 
ascribed to them wherever they appear in this Group Policy or Certificate of Insurance and, where, the context so 
requires, references to the singular include references to the plural; references to the male includes the female and 
references to any statutory enactment includes subsequent changes to the same. 
3.1. Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. 
3.2. Age means age of the Insured Beneficiary on last birthday as on date of commencement of the Certificate of 
Insurance. 
3.3. Any One Illness means continuous period of illness and it includes relapse within forty five days from the date of 
last consultation with the Hospital where treatment has been taken. 
3.4. AYUSH Treatment refers to Hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, 
Sidha and Homeopathy systems. 
3.5. AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and 
interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or 
b. Teaching Hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council of 
Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of 
medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified 
registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with the following criterion: 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 2 of 24 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre 
where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized representative. 
3.6. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre 
(PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with local authorities, wherever 
applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical 
interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) on day care basis without 
in-patient services and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where surgical 
procedures are to be carried out; 
Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
representative. 
3.7. Break in Policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing Cover Period, when the premium 
due for renewal on a given Certificate of Insurance is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or within 30 
days thereof 
3.8. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the Insurer to the Insured Beneficiary where the payments, of the 
costs of treatment undergone by the Insured Beneficiary in accordance with the Certificate of Insurance terms and 
conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the Insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved. 
3.9. Certificate of Insurance [“COI”] means the document issued by the Company/Insurer to the Insured 
Beneficiary under the Terms and Conditions of Master Policy/Group Policy detailing the Group Policy 
Number, Certificate of Insurance number, the Cover Period with the commencement date and end/expiry date 
of the cover, Insured Beneficiary’s name, address, coverage, benefits, Sum Insured, Deductible, condition(s), 
exclusions and or endorsement(s), and the terms and conditions of the coverage. Provided however if there is any 
contradiction between what is stated in the wordings attached to Certificate of Insurance and these Group Policy 
Wordings, then these Group Policy Wordings shall prevail. 
3.10. Condition Precedent means a Certificate of Insurance term or condition upon which the Company’s liability 
under the Certificate of Insurance read with Group Policy is conditional upon. 
3.11. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference 
to form, structure or position. 
a) Internal Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
b) External Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
3.12. Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy/Certificate of Insurance that 
provides that the Insured Beneficiary will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claims amount. A copayment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
3.13. Cover Period: means period as specified in the respective Certificate of Insurance issued to the Insured 
Beneficiary during which he/she is insured as per Terms and Conditions of Certificate of Insurance read with the 
Master Policy/Group Policy.
3.14. Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an 
associated increase in premium. 
3.15. Day Care Centre means any institution established for day care treatment of disease/ injuries or a medical setup 
within a Hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
supervision of a registered and qualified Medical Practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under: 
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
ii. has qualified Medical Practitioner (s) in charge; 
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
iv. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the Company’s authorized personnel.
3.16. Day Care Treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure (as listed in Annexure I) which is: 
i. undertaken under general or local anesthesia in a Hospital/day care centre in less than twenty four hours because 
of technological advancement, and 
ii. which would have otherwise required a Hospitalisation of more than twenty four hours. 
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
3.17. Dental Treatment means a treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, fillings (where 
appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery. 
3.18. Disclosure to information norm: The Certificate of Insurance shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall 
be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material 
fact. 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 3 of 24 
3.19. Emergency Care: Emergency care means management for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a Medical Practitioner to prevent death 
or serious long term impairment of the Insured Beneficiary’s health. 
3.20. Family means, the Family that consists of the Insured Beneficiary and any one or more of the family members 
as mentioned below: 
i. legally wedded spouse. 
ii. Parents and Parents-in-law . 
iii. Dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the age 3months to 25 years. If the child above 
18 years is financially independent, he/she shall be ineligible for coverage in the subsequent renewals. 
3.21. Grace Period means specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during which a 
payment can be made to renew or continue the Certificate of Insurance in force without loss of continuity benefits 
such as waiting period and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for which 
no premium is received. 
3.22.Group- The definition of a group as per the provisions of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016, read with group guidelines issued by IRDAI vide circular No. 
015/IRDA/Life/Circular/GI Guidelines/2005 dated 14th July 2005, as amended/modified/further guidelines 
issued, from time to time.
3.23.Group Policy or Master Policy the Proposal//transcript of proposal for Certificate of Insurance, the Group 
Policy Schedule/AROGYA SANJEEVANI POLICY, BAJAJ ALLIANZ GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY 
LIMITED (GROUP) Group Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or extensions attaching to or 
forming part thereof either on the effective date or during the Group Policy Period along with these Terms 
and Conditions, and the Proposal, declaration, of the insurance coverage and exclusions and copay and 
deductible and under which Certificates of Insurance will be issued to the Insured Beneficiary/ies, either on 
the Risk Inception Date of Group Policy Schedule or during the Group Policy Period. The validity of the 
Master Policy shall be for a period of twelve months as mentioned in the Group Policy Schedule.
3.24. Group Policy Holder/Group Manager/Proposer/Group Administered or “Insured” is the Organization or 
Legal Entity [whose name is mentioned in Group Policy Schedule] which has taken the Group Policy on behalf of 
all Insured Beneficiaries. 
3.25. Group/Master Policy Period means the date between the commencement date specified in the Master Policy 
Schedule or Group Policy Schedule with Risk Inception Date to Risk Expiry Date. 
3.26. Group Policy Period means period of one year as mentioned in the respective Group Policy Schedule issued 
by the Insurer to Group Manager during which Certificate of Insurance will be issued to Insured 
Beneficiary/ies.
3.27. Group Policy Schedule means the Group Policy Schedule and any annexure to it read with endorsements, if 
any, read with respective Certificate of Insurance which are forming part of the Group Policy. 
3.28. Group Policy means these Group Policy wordings, the Group Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements 
or extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Group Policy contains details of the extent of cover available 
to the Insured Beneficiary, what is excluded from the cover and the Terms & Conditions on which the Group Policy 
is issued to the Insured Beneficiary. 
3.29. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of disease/ injuries and 
which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration 
and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act, OR 
complies with all minimum criteria as under: 
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
ii. has at least ten inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than ten lacs and fifteen inpatient 
beds in all other places; 
iii. has qualified Medical Practitioner (s) in charge round the clock; 
iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
v. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the Company’s authorized personnel. 
3.30. Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of twenty four (24) consecutive ‘In-patient 
care’ hours except for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 
twenty four (24) consecutive hours. 
3.31. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological 
function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and requires medical treatment. 
i. Acute Condition means a disease, illness or injury that is likely to response quickly to treatment which aims to 
return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which 
leads to full recovery. 
ii. Chronic Condition means a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics 
a) it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and / or tests 
b) it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
c) it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be special trained to cope with it 
d) it continues indefinitely 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 4 of 24 
e) it recurs or is likely to recur 
3.32. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, 
violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner. 
3.33. In-Patient Care means treatment for which the Insured Beneficiary has to stay in a Hospital for more than 24 
hours for a covered event.
3.34. “Insured Member/s” or “Insured Beneficiary/ies” “Group Member/s” means individual persons for whom the 
Group Policy Holder has taken the Group Insurance Group Policy basis which Certificate of Insurance is issued 
by the Company to the Insured Beneficiary/Insured Member.. 
3.35. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the 
level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other 
wards.
3.36. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses on a per 
day basis which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU 
patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. 
3.37. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any 
prescription or follow up prescription. 
3.38. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Beneficiary has necessarily and actually incurred for 
medical treatment on account of illness or accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are 
no more than would have been payable if the Insured Beneficiary had not been insured and no more than other 
hospitals or Medical Practitioner in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment. 
3.39. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any state or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a 
State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope 
and jurisdiction of the licence. 
3.40. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of a stay in 
Hospital which 
i. is required for the medical management of illness or injury suffered by the Insured Beneficiary ; 
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, 
duration, or intensity; 
iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner; 
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical 
community in India. 
3.41. Migration 
Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under family cover and 
members of group health insurance Policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound 
exclusions with the same insurer. 
3.42. Network Provider means hospitals enlisted by Insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer and TPA to provide medical 
services to an Insured Beneficiary by a cashless facility. 
3.43. Non- Network Provider means any Hospital that is not part of the network.
3.44. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the Insurer or TPA through any of the recognized 
modes of communication. 
3.45. Out-Patient (OPD) Treatment means treatment in which the Insured Beneficiary visits a clinic / Hospital or 
associated facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner. The Insured Beneficiary is not admitted as a day care or in-patient. 
3.46. Pre-Existing Disease (PED): 
means any condition, ailment or injury or disease 
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the Policy issued by the 
Insurer or its reinstatement or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months 
prior to the effective date of the Certificate of Insurance issued by the Insurer or its reinstatement. 
3.47. Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined number of days 
preceding the Hospitalisation of the Insured Beneficiary, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Beneficiary’s Hospitalisation was 
required, and 
ii. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
3.48. Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined number of days 
immediately after the Insured Beneficiary is discharged from the Hospital provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Beneficiary’s Hospitalisation was required, 
and 
ii. The inpatient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance Company.
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 5 of 24 
3.49. Policy Year means a period of twelve months beginning from the date of commencement of the Cover Period 
and ending on the last day of such twelve month period. For the purpose of subsequent years, Policy Year shall 
mean a period of twelve months commencing from the end of the previous Policy Year and lapsing on the last day 
of such twelve-month period, till the Cover Period, as mentioned in the Certificate of Insurance. 
3.50. Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder (including all members under 
family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, from one insurer 
to another Insurer. 
3.51. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing 
Council of any state in India. 
3.52. Renewal: Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with 
a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing 
diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.
3.53. Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall include 
the associated medical expenses. 
3.54. Sub-limit means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance Policy in which an insurer would not be 
liable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined limit.
3.55. Sum Insured means the pre-defined limit specified in the Certificate of Insurance. Sum Insured and Cumulative 
Bonus represents the maximum, total and cumulative liability for any and all claims made under the Certificate of 
Insurance, in respect of that Insured Beneficiary (on Individual basis) or all Insured Beneficiary/ies (on Floater 
basis) during the Policy Year 
3.56. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an 
illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering and 
prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or day care centre by a Medical Practitioner. 
3.57. Third Party Administrator (TPA) means a Company registered with the Authority, and engaged by an Insurer, 
for a fee or remuneration, by whatever name called and as may be mentioned in the agreement, for providing 
health services. 
3.58. Waiting Period means a period from the inception of Cover Period under Certificate of Insurance during which 
specified diseases/treatments are not covered. On completion of the period, diseases/treatments shall be covered 
provided the Certificate of Insurance has been continuously renewed without any break. 
4. COVERAGE 
The covers listed below are in-built benefits under Certificate of Insurance and shall be available to all Insured 
Beneficiary/ies in accordance with the procedures set out in this Group Policy. 
4.1. Hospitalization
The Company shall indemnify Medical Expense incurred for Hospitalization of the Insured Beneficiary during the Policy 
Year, up to the Sum Insured and Cumulative Bonus specified in the Certificate of Insurance, for, 
i. Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses all inclusive as provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home up to 2% of the 
sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.5000/-, per day. 
ii. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) expenses up to 5% of the sum insured subject to 
maximum of Rs.10,000/-, per day. 
iii. Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialist Fees whether paid directly to the treating 
Medical Practitioner or to the Hospital. 
iv. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances, medicines and drugs, costs towards 
diagnostics, diagnostic imaging modalities and such similar other expenses. 
4.1.1 Other Expenses 
i. Expenses incurred on treatment of cataract subject to the sub limits stated in Coverage 4.3 
ii. Dental treatment, necessitated due to disease or an injury 
iii. Plastic surgery necessitated due to disease or injury 
iv. All Day Care Treatments 
v. Expenses incurred on road ambulance subject to a maximum of Rs. 2000/- per Hospitalisation. 
Note:
1. Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours only shall be admissible. However, 
the time limit shall not apply in respect of Day Care Treatment. 
2. In case of admission to a room at rates exceeding the limits as mentioned under (i), the reimbursement 
of all other expenses incurred at the Hospital, with the exception of cost of Pharmacy/medicines, consumables, 
implants, medical devices & diagnostics, shall be payable in the same proportion as the admissible rate per 
day bears to the actual rate per day of room rent charges 
3. Proportionate deductions shall not apply in respect of the Hospitals which do not follow differential billings or 
for those expenses in respect of which differential billing is not adopted based on the room category. 
Proportionate deductions shall not apply for ICU charges in case of admission to ICU.
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 6 of 24 
4.2. AYUSH Treatment
The Company shall indemnify Medical Expenses incurred for Inpatient Care treatment under Ayurveda, Yoga and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy systems of medicines during each Policy Year upto the limit of Sum Insured 
as specified in the Certificate of Insurance in any AYUSH Hospital. 
4.3. Cataract Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify Medical Expenses incurred for treatment of Cataract, subject to a limit of 25% of Sum 
Insured or Rs.40,000/-, whichever is lower, per each eye in one Policy Year. 
4.4. Pre Hospitalization
The Company shall indemnify Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred, related to an admissible Hospitalization 
requiring Inpatient Care, for a fixed period of 30 days prior to the date of admissible Hospitalization covered under the 
Certificate of Insurance. 
4.5. Post Hospitalisation
The Company shall indemnify Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred, related to an admissible Hospitalization 
requiring Inpatient Care, for a fixed period of 60 days from the date of discharge from the Hospital, following an 
admissible Hospitalization covered under the Certificate of Insurance. 
4.6. The following procedures will be covered (wherever medically indicated) either as In-patient or as part of day care 
treatment in a Hospital up to 50% of Sum Insured, specified in the Certificate of Insurance, during the Cover Period: 
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High Intensity focused ultrasound) 
B. Balloon Sinuplasty 
C. Deep Brain Stimulation 
D. Oral Chemotherapy 
E. Immunotherapy – Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 
F. Intra vitreal injections 
G. Robotic surgeries 
H. Stereotactic radio surgeries 
I. Bronchical Thermoplasty 
J. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment) 
K. IONM – (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) 
L. Stem Cell Therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to be 
covered. 
The expenses that are not covered in this Policy are placed under List-I of Annexure-A. The list of expenses that are to 
be subsumed into room charges, or procedure charges or costs of treatment are placed under List-II, List-III and List –
IV of Annexure-A respectively. 
5. Cumulative Bonus (CB)
Cumulative Bonus will be increased by 5% in respect of each claim free Policy Year (no claims are reported), provided 
the Certificate of Insurance is renewed with the company without a break subject to maximum of 50% of the sum insured 
under the current Policy Year. If a claim is made in any particular year, the cumulative bonus accrued shall be reduced 
at the same rate at which it has accrued. However sum insured will be maintained and will not be reduced in the Policy 
Year. 
Notes: 
i. In case where the Policy is on individual basis, the CB shall be added and available individually to the Insured 
Beneficiary if no claim has been reported. CB shall reduce only in case of claim from the same Insured 
Beneficiary. 
ii. In case where the Policy is on floater basis, the CB shall be added and available to the family on floater basis, 
provided no claim has been reported from any member of the family. CB shall reduce in case of claim from any 
of the Insured Beneficiary/ies. 
iii. CB shall be available only if the Certificate of Insurance is renewed/ premium paid within the Grace Period. 
iv. If the Insured Beneficiary/ies in the expiring policy are covered on an Individual basis as specified in the 
Certificate of Insurance and there is an accumulated CB for such Insured Beneficiary under the expiring policy, 
and such expiring policy has been renewed on a floater policy basis as specified in the Certificate of Insurance 
then the CB to be carried forward for credit in such Renewed Certificate of Insurance shall be the one that is 
applicable to the lowest among all the Insured Beneficiary/ies. 
v. In case of floater policies where Insured Beneficiary/ies renew their expiring policy by splitting the Sum Insured 
into two or more floater policies/individual policies or in cases where the Policy is split due to the child attaining 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 7 of 24 
the age of 25 years, the CB of the expiring policy shall be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the proportion 
of the Sum Insured of each Renewed Certificate of Insurance. 
vi. If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable CB shall be reduced in the same 
proportion to the Sum Insured in current Certificate of Insurance. 
vii. If the Sum Insured under the Certificate of Insurance has been increased at the time of Renewal the CB shall 
be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year. 
viii. If a claim is made in the expiring Policy Year, and is notified to Us after the acceptance of Renewal premium 
any awarded CB shall be withdrawn. 
6. Waiting Period 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the Policy in connection with or in respect of following 
expenses till the expiry of waiting period mentioned below:
6.1. Pre-Existing Diseases (Code- Excl01)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded 
until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy with us. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase. 
c) If the Insured Beneficiary is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of 
the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the 
extent of prior coverage. 
d) Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same 
being declared at the time of application and accepted by us.
6.2. First Thirty Days Waiting Period(Code- Excl03)
i. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy commencement date shall 
be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the same are covered. 
ii. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Beneficiary has Continuous Coverage for more than 
twelve months. 
iii. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting 
higher sum insured subsequently. 
6.3. Specific Waiting Period: (Code- Excl02)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the following listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the 
expiry of 24/48 months of continuous coverage, as may be the case after the date of inception of the first policy with 
the Insurer. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an accident. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase. 
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-existing diseases, then the 
longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted 
without a specific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured Beneficiary is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on 
portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
i. 24 Months waiting period 
Benign ENT disorders Gout and Rheumatism 
Tonsillectomy Hernia of all types 
Adenoidectomy Hydrocele 
Mastoidectomy Non Infective Arthritis 
Tympanoplasty Piles, Fissures and Fistula in anus 
Hysterectomy Pilonidal sinus, Sinusitis and related disorders 
All internal and external benign tumours, cysts, polyps of any 
kind, including benign breast lumps 
Prolapse inter Vertebral Disc and Spinal Diseases 
unless arising from accident 
Benign prostate hypertrophy Calculi in urinary system,Gall Bladder and Bile duct, 
excluding malignancy. 
Cataract and age related eye ailments Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers 
Gastric/ Duodenal Ulcer Internal Congenital Anomalies 
ii. 48 Months waiting period 
Treatment for joint replacement unless arising from accident Age-related Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis 
7. EXCLUSIONS 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 8 of 24 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the Policy, in respect of any expenses incurred in 
connection with or in respect of: 
7.1 Investigation & Evaluation(Code- Excl04)
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
7.2 Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care(Code- Excl05) 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living 
such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.
7.3 Obesity/ Weight Control(Code- Excl06)
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body Mass Index (BMI); 
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less 
invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
7.4 Change-of-Gender treatments: (Code- Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those 
of the opposite sex. 
7.5 Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: (Code- Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following 
an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health 
risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical 
Practitioner. 
7.6 Hazardous or Adventure sports: (Code- Excl09) 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure 
sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing 
or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
7.7 Breach of law: Code- (Excl10) 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Beneficiary committing or attempting 
to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
7.8 Excluded Providers: Code- (Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically 
excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the Policy holder/Policy Holder/Insured Beneficiary 
(ies) are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to the 
stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. 
7.9 Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. (CodeExcl12)
7.10 Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds 
registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for 
domestic reasons. (Code- Excl13) 
7.11 Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to 
Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner as part of 
hospitalization claim or day care procedure (Code- Excl14) 
7.12 Refractive Error: (Code- Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. 
7.13 Unproven Treatments:(Code- Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven 
treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their 
effectiveness. 
7.14 Sterility and Infertility: (Code- Excl17) 
Expenses related to Sterility and Infertility. This includes: 
(i) Any type of Contraception, sterilization 
(ii) Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technologies such 
as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 9 of 24 
(iii) Gestational Surrogacy 
(iv) Reversal of sterilization 
7.15 Maternity Expenses (Code:Excl 18): 
i. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections 
incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy; 
ii. expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy during 
the Cover Period.
7.16 War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities, civil 
war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and 
detainment of all kinds. 
7.17 Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting from or from any other 
cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, claim or expense. For the purpose 
of this exclusion: 
a) Nuclear attack or weapon means the use of any nuclear weapon or device or waste or combustion of nuclear 
fuel or the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of fissile/fusion material emitting a level of 
radioactivity capable of causing any illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
b) Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any pathogenic 
(disease producing) micro-organisms and/or biologically produced toxins (including genetically modified 
organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) which are capable of causing any illness, incapacitating 
disablement or death. 
c) Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any pathogenic 
(disease producing) micro-organisms and/or biologically produced toxins (including genetically modified 
organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) which are capable of causing any illness, incapacitating 
disablement or death. 
7.18 Any expenses incurred on Domiciliary Hospitalization and OPD Treatment. 
7.19 Treatment taken outside the geographical limits of India 
7.20 In respect of the existing diseases, disclosed by the Insured Beneficiary and mentioned in the Policy Schedule 
(based on Insured Beneficiary’s consent), he/she is not entitled to get the coverage for specified ICD codes. 
8. Moratorium Period: After completion of eight continuous years under this Policy no look back would be applied. 
This period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured 
of the first policy and subsequently completion of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of 
enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no claim under 
this Policy shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the Policy contract. 
The Certificate of Insurance would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, as per the Group Policy. 
9. CLAIM PROCEDURE
1.1 Procedure for Cashless Claims: 
i. Treatment may be taken in a network provider and is subject to pre authorization by the Company or its 
authorized TPA. 
ii. Cashless request form available with the network provider and TPA shall be completed and sent to the 
Company/TPA for the authorization 
iii. The Company/TPA upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from the Insured 
Beneficiary / network provider will issue pre-authorization letter to the Hospital after verification. 
iv. At the time of discharge, the Insured Beneficiary has to verify and sign the discharge papers, pay for nonmedical and inadmissible expenses. 
v. The Company / TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the Insured Beneficiary is unable 
to provide the relevant medical details 
vi. In case of denial of cashless access, the Insured Beneficiary may obtain the treatment as per the treating
Medical Practitioner’s advice and submit the claim documents to the Company / TPA for 
reimbursement. 
1.2 Procedure for reimbursement of claims:
 For reimbursement of claims the Insured Beneficiary may submit the necessary documents to TPA (if 
applicable)/Company within the prescribed time limit as specified hereunder. 
SI. No. Type of Claim Prescribed Time Limit 
1. Reimbursement of hospitalization, day care and pre 
hospitalization expenses 
Within 30 days of date of discharge of 
Hospital 
2. Reimbursement of post hospitalization expenses Within 15 days from completion of 
post hospitalization treatment 
9.1 Notification of Claim
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 10 of 24 
Notice with full particulars shall be sent to the Company / TPA (if applicable) as under: 
i. Within 24 hours from the date of emergency hospitalization required or before the Insured Beneficiary’s discharge 
from Hospital, whichever is earlier. 
ii. At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization. 
9.2 Documents to be submitted:
The reimbursement claim is to be supported with the following documents and submitted within the prescribed time 
limit. 
i. Duly completed claim form 
ii. Photo identity proof of the patient 
iii. Medical practitioner’s prescription advising admission. 
iv. Original bills with itemized break-up 
v. Payment receipts 
vi. Discharge summary including complete medical history of the patient along with other details 
vii. Investigation / Diagnostic test reports etc. supported by the prescription from attending Medical Practitioner
viii. OT notes or Surgeon’s certificate giving details of the operation performed (for surgical cases) 
ix. Sticker/Invoice of the Implants, wherever applicable. 
x. MLR (Medico Legal Report) copy if carried out and FIR (First Information Report) if registered, wherever 
applicable. 
xi. NEFT Details (to enable direct credit of claim amount in bank account) and cancelled cheque 
xii. KYC (identity proof with address) of the proposer, where claim liability is above Rs. 1 Lakh as per AML Guidelines. 
xiii. Legal heir/ succession certificate, wherever applicable 
xiv. Any other relevant document required by Company/ TPA for assessment of the claim. 
[Note: Insurer may specify the documents required in original and waive off any of the above required as per their 
claim procedure] 
Note:
1. The company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related documents only in the Insure Person’s 
name for whom the claim is submitted 
2. In the event of a claim lodged under the Certificate of Insurance and the original documents having been submitted 
to any other insurer, the Company shall accept the copy of the documents and claim settlement advice, duly 
certified by the other insurer subject to satisfaction of the Company 
3. Any delay in notification or submission may be condoned on merit where delay is proved to be for reasons beyond 
the control of the Insured Beneficiary 
9.3 Co-payment
Each and every claim under the Certificate of Insurance shall be subject to a Copayment of 5% applicable to claim 
amount admissible and payable as per the terms and conditions of the Certificate of Insurance read with Group Policy. 
The amount payable shall be after deduction of the copayment. 
9.4 Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest)
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document. 
ii. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest from the date of receipt 
of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate 
and complete such investigation at the earliest in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document. In such cases, the Company shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of 
last necessary document. 
iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days the Insurer shall be liable to pay interest at a rate 2% above the bank 
rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
(Explanation: “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the financial 
year in which claim has fallen due) 
9.5 Services Offered by TPA
Servicing of claims, i.e., claim admissions and assessments, under the Certificate of Insurance by way of preauthorization of cashless treatment or processing of claims other than cashless claims or both, as per the underlying 
terms and conditions of the Certificate of Insurance read with the Group Policy. 
The services offered by a TPA shall not include 
i. Claim settlement and claim rejection; 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 11 of 24 
ii. Any services directly to any Insured Beneficiary or to any other person unless such service is in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the Agreement entered into with the Company. 
9.6 Payment of Claim
All claims under the Policy shall be payable in Indian currency only.
10. GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS 
10.1 Disclosure of Information
The Certificate of Insurance shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event 
of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder. 
(Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the company in 
the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of underwriting 
the risk) 
10.2 Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any payment 
for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
10.3 Material Change
The Insured Beneficiary shall notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk in relation to the 
declaration made in the proposal form or medical examination report at each Renewal and the Company may, adjust 
the scope of cover and / or premium, if necessary, accordingly. 
10.4 Records to be Maintained
The Insured Beneficiary shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical records and shall allow the Insurer 
or its representatives to inspect such records. The Insured Beneficiary shall furnish such information as the Company 
may require for settlement of any claim under the Certificate of Insurance, within reasonable time limit and within the 
time limit specified in the Certificate of Insurance.
10.5 Complete Discharge
Any payment to the Insured Beneficiary or his/her nominees or his/her legal representative or or Assignee or to the 
Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the Certificate of Insurance read with the Group Policy shall be valid 
discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim. 
10.6 Notice & Communication
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy should be made in writing. 
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through any other electronic modes specified 
in the Certificate of Insurance read with Group Policy. 
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured Beneficiary at the address or through any other electronic mode 
mentioned in the Certificate of Insurance. 
10.7 Territorial Limit
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India only. 
10.8 Multiple Policies
1. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Beneficiary during a period from the same or one or more insurers 
to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Beneficiary shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim 
in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer if chosen by the Insured Beneficiary shall be obliged 
to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
2. Insured Beneficiary having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this Certificate of 
Insurance for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies, even if the sum insured is not exhausted. 
Then the Insurer(s) shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this Certificate of 
Insurance read with Group Policy. 
3. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy after, the Insured Beneficiary shall 
have the right to choose insurers from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
4. Where an Insured Beneficiary has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, 
the Insured Beneficiary shall only be indemnified the hospitalization costs in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the chosen policy. 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 12 of 24 
10.9 Fraud 
If any claim made by the Insured Beneficiary, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is 
made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured Beneficiary or anyone 
acting on His/her behalf to obtain any Benefit under this Certificate of Insurance, all benefits under this Certificate of 
Insurance shall be forfeited. 
Any amount already paid against Claims which are found fraudulent later under this Certificate of Insurance shall be 
repaid by all person(s) named in the Certificate of Insurance, who shall be jointly liable for such repayment. 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the Insured 
Beneficiary or by his agent, with intent to deceive the Insurer or to induce the Insurer to issue an Certificate of 
Insurance:- 
a) The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Beneficiary does not believe 
to be true; 
b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Beneficiary having knowledge or brief of the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim under Certificate of Insurance on the ground of fraud, if the Insured 
Beneficiary/beneficiary can prove that the mis-statement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no 
deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the 
knowledge of the Insurer. 
 
10.10 Cancellation
a) The Insured Beneficiary may cancel this Certificate of Insurance by giving 15 days’ written notice, and in such an 
event, the Company shall refund premium on short term rates for the unexpired Cover Period as per the rates 
detailed below. 
Refund % 
Refund of Premium (basis Cover Period) 
Timing of Cancellation 1 Yr 
 Up to 30 days 75.00% 
 31 to 90 days 50.00% 
 3 to 6 months 25.00% 
 6 to 12 months 0.00% 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation 
where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any Benefit has been availed by the Insured Beneficiary 
under the Certificate of Insurance. 
b) Cancellation grid for premium received on instalment basis and refund is as under 
For monthly/quarterly premium modes, no premium is refunded. For half yearly premium payment mode, the 
premium will be refunded as per the below table: 
Period in Risk (from latest instalment date) Premium Refund Pro Rate 
% of Half Yearly Premium 
Exceeding 15 days but less than or equal to 3 months 30% 
Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6 
months 
0% 
c) The Company may cancel the Certificate of Insurance at any time on grounds of mis-representation, non-disclosure 
of material facts, fraud by the Insured Beneficiary, by giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no refund of 
premium on cancellation on grounds of mis-representation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
10.11 Automatic change in Coverage under the Certificate of Insurance
The coverage for the Insured Beneficiary(s) shall automatically terminate: 
1. In the case of his/ her (Insured Beneficiary) demise. 
However the cover shall continue for the remaining Insured Beneficiary/ies till the end of Cover Period. The other Insured 
Beneficiary/ies may also apply to renew the Certificate of Insurance. In case, the other Insured Beneficiary is minor, the 
Certificate of Insurance shall be renewed only through any one of his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed by 
Court. All relevant particulars in respect of such person (including his/her relationship with the Insured Beneficiary) must 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 13 of 24 
be submitted to the Company along with the application. Provided no Claim has been made, and termination takes place 
on account of death of the Insured Beneficiary, pro-rata refund of premium of the deceased Insured Beneficiary for the 
balance Cover Period of the Certificate of Insurance will be effective. 
2. Upon exhaustion of Sum insured and Cumulative Bonus, for the Policy Year. However, the Certificate of Insuranceis 
subject to renewal on the due date as per the applicable terms and conditions. 
10.12 Territorial Jurisdiction 
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of the terms, conditions, validity, construct, limitations 
and/or exclusions contained in the Certificate of Insurance shall be determined by the Indian court and according to 
Indian law. 
10.13 Withdrawal of Policy 
i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about 
the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. 
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company 
at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting 
period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break. 
10.14Arbitration
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under the claim in the Certificate of Insurance, 
(liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions, be referred to the 
decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the Insured Beneficiary and the Insurer or if they cannot 
agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a 
panel of three arbitrators, comprising two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the Insured Beneficiary and 
the Insurer to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration 
shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as 
amended by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016). 
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as herein before 
provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of the claim under Certificate of 
Insurance. 
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon 
the Certificate of Insurance that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first 
obtained. 
10.15 Migration
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the 
company by applying for migration of the policyatleast30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI 
guidelineson Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses 
under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company,the insured person will get the accrued continuity 
benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration. 
For detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link: 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
10.16 Portability 
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to suchinsurer to port the 
entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days 
from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. If such person is presently covered and 
has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health 
insurer, the proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI 
guidelines on portability. 
For detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link: 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
10.17 Renewal of Certificate of Insurance 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured person. 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 14 of 24 
i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give 
any notice for renewal. 
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the preceding 
policy years. 
iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy 
period. 
iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of …… 
days (Note to insurers: Insurer to specify grace period as per product design) to maintain continuity of benefits 
withoutbreak in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period. 
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
10.18 Premium Payment in Installments
If the Insured Beneficiary has opted for Payment of Premium on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly, Quarterly or 
Monthly, as mentioned in Your Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance, the following Conditions shall apply ( 
notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy) 
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the installment premium due for the Policy. 
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the installment premium payment due date till 
the date of receipt of premium by the Company. 
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, “Specific Waiting 
Periods” in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period. 
iv. No interest will be charged if the installment premium is not paid on due date. 
v. In case of installment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get cancelled. 
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and payable. 
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim amount due 
under the policy. 
10.19 Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Certificate of Insurance or Group Policy Including the Premium 
Rates 
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Group Policy and Certificate of 
Insurance including the premium rates. The Insured Beneficiary shall be notified three months before the changes are 
effected. 
10.20 Free look period
The Free Look Period shall be applicable at the inception of the Certificate of Insurance and not on renewals or at the 
time of porting the Certificate of Insurance. 
The Insured Beneficiary shall be allowed a period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the Certificate of Insurance to 
review the terms and conditions of the Certificate of Insurance and Group Policy , and to return the same if not 
acceptable. 
If the Insured Beneficiary has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the Insured Beneficiary shall be entitled 
to 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the Insured 
Beneficiary and the stamp duty charges; or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Certificate of Insurance is exercised by the 
Insured Beneficiary, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the 
insurance coverage during such period; 
10.21 Endorsements (Changes in the Certificate of Insurance) 
i. This Certificate of Insurance read with Group Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This 
Certificate of Insurance cannot be modified by anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except the 
Company. Any change made by the Company shall be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and 
stamped. 
ii. The Insured Beneficiary may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new Insured Beneficiary must be the 
legal heir/immediate family member. Such change would be subject to acceptance by the Company and 
payment of premium (if any). The renewed Certificate of Insurance shall be treated as having been renewed 
without break. 
iii. The Insured Beneficiary may be changed during the Cover Period only in case of his/her demise or him/her 
moving out of India. 
10.22 Change of Sum Insured 
Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) only at the time of renewal or at any time, subject to underwriting 
by the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall start afresh only for the enhanced portion of the sum 
insured.
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 15 of 24 
10.23. Terms and condition of the Certificate of Insurance
The terms and conditions contained herein under Group Policy Wordings and in the Certificate of Insurance shall be 
deemed to form part of the Certificate of Insurancey and shall be read together as one document. 
10.24 Nomination
Insured Beneficiary is required at the inception of the Certificate of Insurance to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the Certificate of Insurance in the event of death of the Insured Beneficiary. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an 
endorsement on the Certificate of Insurance is made. For claim settlement under reimbursement, the Company will pay 
the Insured Beneficiary. In the event of death of Insured Beneficiary, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in 
the Certificate of Insurance/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal 
representatives of the Insured Beneficiary whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability 
under the Certificate of Insurance. 
11. Redressal Of Grievance 
Grievance–In case of any grievance relating to servicing the Group Policy and or Certificate of Insurance, the Insured 
Beneficiary may submit in writing to the Certificate of Insurance issuing office or regional office for redressal. 
Contact: 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road 
Yerawada, Pune 411006 
E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in 
Call : 1800-225858 (free calls from BSNL/MTNL lines only) 
1800-1025858 ( free calls from Bharti users – mobile /landline ) or 020-30305858 
IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/ 
Insurance Ombudsman –The Insured Beneficiary may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the 
respective area/region for redressal of grievance. The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices have been 
provided as Annexure B 
No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. Insurance is the subject matter of 
solicitation 
12. TABLE OF BENEFITS 
Name Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) 
Product Type Group 
Category of Cover Indemnity 
Sum insured 
INR ₹ 1,00,000, ₹ 1,50,000, ₹ 2,00,000, ₹ 2,50,000, ₹ 3,00,000, ₹ 3,50,000, ₹ 4,00,000, ₹ 
4,50,000, ₹ 5,00,000, ₹ 7,50,000, ₹ 10,00,000, ₹ 12,50,000, ₹ 15,00,000, ₹ 20,00,000 and ₹ 
25,00,000 
On Individual basis – SI shall apply to each individual family member 
On Floater basis – SI shall apply to the entire family 
Cover Period 1 year 
Eligibility 
Certificate of Insurance can be availed by persons between the age of 18 years and 65years, 
as Proposer subject to such Proposer is Group Member of Insured/Group Manager. Proposer 
with higher age, subject to such Proposer is Group Members of Insured/Group Manager, can 
obtain Certificate of Insurance for family, without covering self. 
Certificate of Insurance can be availed for Self and the following family members 
a. Legally wedded Spouse 
b. Parents and Parents-in-law 
c. Dependent Children (i.e natural or legally adopted) between the age of 3months to 25 
years. If the child above 18 years is financially independent or if the girl child is married, 
he or she shall be ineligible for coverage in the subsequent renewals. 
Grace Period For Yearly payment of mode, a fixed period of 30 days is to be allowed as Grace Period and 
for all other modes of payment a fixed period of 15 days be allowed as grace period. 
Hospitalisation 
Expenses 
Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours only shall be 
admissible 
Time limit of 24 hrs shall not apply when the treatment is undergone in a Day Care Center 
Pre 
Hospitalisation For 30 days prior to the date of hospitalization 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 16 of 24 
Post 
Hospitalisation For 60 days from the date of discharge from the Hospital 
Sublimit for room/
Medical 
Practitioner fee 
1.Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses all inclusive as provided by the Hospital / Nursing 
Home up to 2% of the sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.5000/-, per day. 
2.Intensive Care Unit (ICU) charges/ Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) charges all inclusive 
as provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home up to 5% of the sum insured subject to maximum 
of Rs.10,000/-, per day 
Cataract 
Treatment 
Up to 25% of Sum insured or Rs.40,000/-, whichever is lower, per eye, under one Policy 
Year. 
AYUSH 
Expenses incurred for Inpatient Care treatment under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, 
Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy systems of medicines shall be covered upto sum insured, 
during each Policy Year as specified in the Policy Schedule. 
Pre Existing 
Disease 
Only PEDs declared in the Proposal Form and accepted for coverage by the Company shall 
be covered after a waiting period of 4 years 
Cumulative bonus Increase in the sum insured by 5% in respect of each claim free year subject to a maximum of 
50% of SI. In the event of claim the cumulative bonus shall be reduced at the same rate. 
Co Pay 5% co pay on all claims 
Pre-Policy Checkup 
 No Medical tests up to 45 years, subject to no adverse health conditions. 
 Pre - medical tests are mandatory for 46 years and above. 
 The pre-policy checkup would be arranged at our empanelled diagnostic centres. 
 The validity of the test reports would be 30 days from date of medical examination. 
 100 % cost of pre-policy check-up would be refunded if the proposal is accepted & 
policy is issued. 
 Medical Tests required as listed below: 
Full Medical Report, CBC, Urine R, ECG, Lipid profile, Fasting BSL, HbA1c, SGOT, 
SGPT, Sr Creatinine 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 17 of 24 
Annexure-A 
List I – Items for which optional cover may be offered by Insurers 
Sl
No
Item
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 Television Charges 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE) 
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL) 
36 SPACER 
37 SPIROMETRE 
38 NEBULIZER KIT 
39 STEAM INHALER 
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) 
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 18 of 24 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
List 
III – 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES 
53 SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
60 MASK 
61 OUNCE GLASS 
62 OXYGEN MASK 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT 
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER 
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 AMBULANCE 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
Sl
No
Item
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS 
11 TISSUE PAPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP 
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 19 of 24 
Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
Sl
No.
Item
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER 
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT 
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET 
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
Sl
No.
Item
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES 
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 Glucometer& Strips 
18 URINE BAG 
 Annexure-B 
The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices are as belowAreas of Jurisdiction Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Gujarat , UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman 
and Diu 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd floor, Ambica House, 
Near C.U. Shah College, 
5, Navyug Colony, Ashram Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 014. 
Tel.: 079 - 27546150 / 27546139 
Fax: 079 - 27546142 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
Karnataka Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan SoudhaBuilding,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JanakVihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in 
Odisha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in 
Punjab , Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu 
and Kashmir, UT of Chandigarh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in 
Tamil Nadu, UT–Pondicherry Town and Karaikal 
(which are part of UT of Pondicherry) 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in 
Delhi Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23239633 / 23237532 
Fax: 011 - 23230858 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in 
Assam , Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2132204 / 2132205 
Fax: 0361 - 2732937 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of Yanam – 
a part of the UT of Pondicherry 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
UIN: BAJHLGP21602V012021 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (Group) Policy Wordings Page 21 of 24 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 65504123 / 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in 
Rajasthan Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in 
Kerala , UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b) Mahe – a 
part of UT of Pondicherry 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in 
West Bengal, UT of Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands, Sikkim 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, 
Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in 
Goa, 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan SevaAnnexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in 
State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of 
Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, 
Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
BhagwanSahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, 
U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514251 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006. 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in