1 | P a g e
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Protection of Policyholders’ 
Interests and Allied Matters of Insurers) Regulations, 2024 
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 114A, section 14, section 38 (7), 
section 39 (3), section 64VC, section 64VB (6) of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938) read with 
section 14 and section 26 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 
of 1999), the Authority, in consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, hereby makes 
the following regulations, namely:
1. Short Title and Commencement 
(1) These regulations shall be called the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (Protection of Policyholders’ interests and Allied Maters of Insurers) 
Regulations, 2024.
(2) These regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the 
official Gazette of the Government of India and supersede the following regulations:
(i) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Manner of Receipt of 
Premium) Regulations, 2002
(ii) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Places of 
Business) Regulations, 2015
(iii) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Fee for 
registering cancellation or change of nomination) Regulations 2015
(iv) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Fee for 
granting written acknowledgement of receipt of Notice of Assignment or 
Transfer) Regulations, 2015
(v) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Issuance of eInsurance Policies) Regulations, 2016
(vi) Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Outsourcing of 
Activities by Indian Insurers) Regulations, 2017
(vii) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Protection of 
Policyholders’ Interests) Regulations, 2017
(viii) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Insurance 
Advertisements and Disclosure) Regulations, 2021
2 | P a g e
2. Objective 
(1) To ensure fair treatment of prospects at the stage of solicitation and sale of insurance 
policies.
(2) To ensure that interests of policyholders are protected, and the conduct of the insurer 
and its distribution channel are not prejudicial to the interests of policyholders.
(3) To ensure that insurers, and distribution channel fulfil their obligations towards 
policyholders and have in place standard procedures respectively including best 
practices for sale and service of policyholders.
(4) To ensure policyholder-centric governance by insurers and distribution channels with 
emphasis on grievance redressal.
(5) To ensure that insurers follow prudent practices on management of risks arising out 
of outsourcing with a view to preventing negative systemic impact and to protect the 
interests of the policyholders. To ensure sound and responsive management 
practices for effective oversight and adequate due diligence with regard to 
outsourcing of activities by insurers.
(6) To ensure that opening or closing of places of business within or outside India by 
insurers is conducted in a manner which is not prejudicial to the interests of 
policyholders. 
3. These Regulations shall be inforce for a period of 3 years from the date of their publication 
in the Official Gazette, unless reviewed or amended earlier. 
4. The present Regulations shall be divided into the following parts:
(1) Part A covers provisions relating to protection of the interest of the policyholders;
(2) Part B covers provisions relating to Operation and allied matters of the insurers.
Part-A
Provisions relating to Protection of Interests of Policyholders 
5. The present Regulations shall be divided into the following parts: 
(1) Chapter 1 : Activities prior to sale of insurance policies 
(2) Chapter 2 : Proposal for sale of insurance policies 
(3) Chapter 3 : Issuance of Insurance Policies 
(4) Chapter 4 : Provisions relating to payment and refund of Premium, 
 Nomination and Assignment
3 | P a g e
(5) Chapter 5 : Free Look Period and Servicing of Policyholders 
(6) Chapter 6 : Settlement of Policyholder Claims 
(7) Chapter 7 : Grievance Redressal 
(8) Chapter 8 : Miscellaneous issues
 
6. Applicability 
(1) These regulations shall be applicable to all insurers and distribution channels except
for those engaged exclusively in reinsurance business, unless otherwise specified. 
7. Definitions 
 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) “Act” means the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938).
(2) “Authority” means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
established under the provisions of Section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999).
(3) “Bank Rate” means Bank rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the 
beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due. 
(4) “Competent Authority” means Chairperson or Whole-Time Member or Committee 
of the Whole-Time Members or Officer(s) of the Authority, as may be determined 
by the Chairperson.
(5) “Complaint” or “Grievance” means written expression (includes communication in 
the form of electronic mail or other electronic scripts) of dissatisfaction by a 
complainant with respect to solicitation or sale of an insurance policy or related 
services by insurer and /or by distribution channel.
Explanation: An inquiry or service request would not fall within the definition of 
the “complaint” or “grievance”.
(6) “Complainant” means a policyholder or prospect or nominee or any beneficiary of 
an insurance policy who has filed a complaint or grievance against an insurer 
and /or distribution channel. 
(7) “Cover” means an insurance contract whether in the form of a policy or policy 
document or a cover note or a Certificate of Insurance or any other form as may 
be specified to evidence the existence of an insurance contract.
(8) “Distribution Channels” include insurance agents and intermediaries or 
4 | P a g e
insurance intermediaries ascribed to such term under clause (f) of sub-section 
(1) of Section 2 of IRDA Act, 1999, persons and entities authorised by the 
Authority to involve in sale and service of insurance products; 
(9) “Mis-selling” means sale or solicitation of policies by the insurer or through 
distribution channels, directly or indirectly by 
a. forcefully exercising undue influence, use of dominance position or 
otherwise; or 
b. knowingly making a false or misleading statement or misrepresenting the 
facts or benefits, or 
c. knowingly concealing or omitting facts, features, benefits with respect to 
products, or 
d. not taking reasonable care to ensure suitability of the policy to the 
policyholders. 
(10) "Proposal form” means a form to be filled in by the prospect in written or 
electronic or any other forms for furnishing the information including material 
information, if any, as required by the insurer in respect of a risk, in order to 
enable the insurer to take informed decision in the context of underwriting the 
risk, and in the event of acceptance of the risk, to determine the rates, 
advantages, terms and conditions of the cover to be granted;
Explanation: (i) “Material Information” for the purpose of these regulations shall 
mean all important, essential and relevant information and documents explicitly 
sought by insurer in the proposal form. 
(ii) The requirements of “disclosure of material information” regarding a proposal or 
policy apply both to the insurer and the insured, under these regulations.
(11) "Prospect” means any person who is a potential customer and likely to enter into 
an insurance contract either directly with the insurer or through the distribution 
channel involved in the solicitation.
(12) “Prospectus”: means a document either in physical or electronic or any other 
format issued by the insurer to sell or promote the insurance product.
Explanation: Insurance product referred herein shall also include the riders 
offered, if any. Where a rider is tied to a base policy, all the terms and conditions 
of the rider shall be mentioned in the prospectus. Where a standalone rider is 
5 | P a g e
offered to a base product, a reference to the rider shall be made in the 
prospectus of the base policy indicating the nature of benefits flowing thereupon.
(13) “Solicitation” means the act of approaching a prospect or a policyholder by an 
insurer or by a distribution channel with a view to persuade the prospect or a 
policyholder to purchase or to renew an insurance policy.
(14) “Unfair trade practice” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the 
Consumer Protection Act, 2019, as amended from time to time. 
(15) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in 
the Act, or the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 
1999) or the Insurance Rules, 1939 or any other regulations issued by the 
Authority shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts or 
Rules or Regulations.
 
Chapter-1 
ACTIVITIES PRIOR TO SALE OF INSURANCE POLICIES
 
8. Every insurer shall ensure that:
a. the prospect or the policyholder has equitable and inclusive access to the insurance 
products and services either directly or through its distribution channel.
b. The solicitation process is transparent and has built-in practices to enable fair and 
equitable treatment of the prospect or the policyholder at all points of time and 
provide all necessary information about the products to enable them to take suitable 
decision about purchasing insurance policies. 
9. BOARD APPROVED POLICY FOR PROTECTION OF INTERESTS OF POLICYHOLDERS: 
1) Every insurer shall have in place a board approved policy for protection of 
policyholders’ interests which shall at the minimum, include:
i. Ensuring that during policy solicitation and sale stages, prospects are made 
aware of the benefits of the product being sold vis-a-vis the product features 
attached thereto and the terms and conditions of the product, so that the 
benefits / returns of the product are not mis-stated / mis-represented to 
prospects.
ii. ensuring inclusivity and accessibility of insurance cover to persons with 
disabilities.
iii. enhancing service and process efficiencies including grievance redressal by 
6 | P a g e
adopting technological solutions.
iv. preventing mis-selling and unfair business practices by building suitable conduct 
measures.
v. setting reasonable turnaround times for various activities and services; 
vi. enhancing Insurance Awareness so as to educate prospects and policyholders 
about insurance products, benefits and their rights and responsibilities.
vii. Manner for expeditious settlement of claims.
viii. Mechanism for resolution of complaints and grievances in relation to mis-selling, 
publishing service parameters including turnaround times for various services
rendered.
2) Every Insurer shall 
i. review the board approved policy on an annual basis.
ii. display the service parameters and turnaround times in its website 
prominently and keep the same updated as and when the service parameters 
are revised by the Board.
10. Disclosure of Products on Offer/ Products Withdrawn 
1) Every insurer shall place on its website an updated list of every insurance product
along with the applicable terms and conditions and its Unique Identification Number, 
that is offered for sale by the insurer, including products modified or products 
withdrawn. 
2) Every distribution channel maintaining a website shall provide a link prominently on 
its website to directly access the insurer’s website wherein products on offer are 
displayed with respect to insurers.
11. Prospectus of Insurance Products 
1) Every insurer shall ensure that the information given to the prospect or the 
policyholder about the product offerings shall reflect true and correct picture about 
the features, benefits, exclusions, risks, options, exit options including grievance 
redressal in clear and simple terms.
2) Every insurer shall develop and maintain a prospectus for every individual insurance 
product including riders or add-ons thereto and make available such prospectus on 
their website. 
7 | P a g e
3) The Competent Authority may specify information to be incorporated in the 
prospectus.
4) Insurers shall be responsible for the contents of the prospectus and shall ensure that 
a. No sale of insurance product is made without prospectus, explaining all the 
benefits, features, terms and conditions of the product and providing benefit 
illustration to the prospect, wherever applicable;
Explanation: Except for life insurance products where all the benefits are assured 
in absolute amounts at the outset of the contract, all other life insurance 
products shall provide the prospective policyholder a customized benefit 
illustration at the point of sale, illustrating the guaranteed and non-guaranteed 
benefits at gross investment returns as may be specified. 
b. The prospectus enables the prospects or the policyholders to make informed 
decisions. The benefits and features of the product considering the nuances of 
the products are explained in clear and concise terms including giving 
illustration.;
c. There is no misleading or false information; and
d. Details of the grievance redressal processes are provided.
e. An insurer or distribution channel shall provide all necessary information including 
any material information in respect of a proposed cover(s) to the prospect to enable 
the prospect to decide on the best cover(s).
5) Where the prospect depends upon the advice of the insurer or distribution channel, such 
a person must advise the prospect in an unbiased and objective manner.
12. Sale of Insurance Products through Distance Modes of Solicitation 
1) Insurers and distribution channels as may be permitted by the Authority, shall ensure, 
that sale executed over distance mode of solicitation is undertaken in the manner 
specified.
2) The insurers and distribution channels which operate though any technological platform
shall at all times adhere to data protection and cyber security laws and code of conduct
as per extant legislative framework.
8 | P a g e
Chapter 2 
PROPOSAL FOR SALE OF INSURANCE POLICIES 
13. Proposal for Insurance 
1) A proposal for grant of insurance cover, for any class of insurance business, must be 
evidenced by a proposal form in written or electronic form. The Authority may specify 
any exemption to the requirement of proposal form as it may deem fit.
2) In case the proposal form is not filled in by the prospect, the distribution channel shall 
explain the contents of the form, and a statement shall be incorporated at the end of 
the proposal form from the prospect that the contents of the proposal form have been 
fully explained to him and he has fully understood.
3) In case of marine insurance cover or other insurance covers, if a proposal form is not 
used, the insurer shall record the information obtained orally or in writing or 
electronically, and confirm it within a period of 7 days thereof with the prospect and 
incorporate the information in its cover note or policy. 
4) Where the insurer claims that the prospect suppressed any material information or 
provided misleading or false information on any matter material to the grant of a 
cover, then the onus of proof rests with the insurer.
5) Any proposal form seeking information for grant of life cover shall prominently state 
therein the requirements of Section 45 of the Act. Every insurer shall ensure that all 
the information sought in the proposal form is complete, to its satisfaction before 
making an underwriting decision on the proposal form.
6) Every insurer shall process the proposals with speed and efficiency and communicate
in writing to the proposer the decision on the proposal within a reasonable period but 
not exceeding 7 days from the date of receipt of proposal or any requirements called 
for by the insurer.
7) Insurer shall furnish to the insured, free of charge, within 30 days of the acceptance 
of a proposal, a copy of the proposal submitted by the Insured and where the proposal 
has been accepted by the insurer, the proposal form may be sent along with the policy 
document within a reasonable period but not exceeding 30 days from the date of 
receipt of proposal or any requirements called by the insurer. 
8) Where any amount received towards premium is refundable to a prospect under any 
circumstances, the same shall be refunded, fully or in part after adjusting the 
premium as the case may be, within 7 days from the date of underwriting decision on 
9 | P a g e
the proposal. 
 
Chapter 3 
ISSUANCE OF INSURANCE POLICIES
14. Every insurer shall ensure that:
(1) The policy terms and conditions are written in simple and clear terms to understand, 
avoid jargon and avoid coercive, unfair and one-sided clauses.
(2) All necessary and relevant details are included in the policy. 
15. Insurers shall ensure that the insurance policies issued to the policyholders contain such 
minimum details as may be specified from time to time. 
16. Issuance of Insurance policies in electronic form 
(1) Board approved policy - All insurers shall have in place a Board approved policy for 
insurance policies issued in electronic form. The policy shall cover the following at the 
minimum:
a. Measures to safeguard the privacy of the data, 
b. Adequacy of systems to prevent manipulation of records and transactions,
c. Broad framework on security of data, 
d. IT related processes, 
e. Data and record reconciliation amongst multiple systems, and
f. Continuous review and upgradation of the cyber security safeguards put in 
place.
(2) Notwithstanding whether the proposal is received in electronic form or otherwise, 
every insurer shall issue insurance policies only in the electronic form, where the 
following one or more condition(s) are met:
a. sums insured under the policy exceeds Rs.100; or 
b. the single/annual premium is not less than Rs.10. 
Provided that the Competent Authority, on being satisfied that it is in the interest
of policyholders and for orderly growth of insurance industry, allow such other 
exemptions to this requirement.
(3) Electronic Insurance Policies shall be deemed valid only when issued with digital 
signature.
(4) All policies issued in electronic form by the Insurer directly to the policyholder shall 
also be issued in physical form, if requested by the policyholder. 
(5) The operational framework for issuance of electronic insurance policies may be
10 | P a g e
specified.
17. Group Insurance Polices 
(1) No group shall be formed for the sole purpose of availing insurance. 
Explanation: A group should consist of persons who assemble together with a 
commonality of purpose or engaging in a common economic activity such as
employees of a company or an association of a building society.
(2) Where a person is negotiating “group” rates and then finding members to insure,
such groups shall not be considered as a legitimate group for the purpose of availing 
group insurance.
(3) Where an employer buys a group insurance policy for its employees, the employer 
shall be treated as the master policyholder with the employees being treated as the 
beneficiaries. In such cases, the employer shall issue confirmation of insurance 
protection to individual employees with clear reference to the group insurance policy;
(4) In case of a non-employer-employee group purchasing a group policy:
a. the group policyholder shall have authority from the members to arrange 
insurance on their behalf. 
b. the individual group member would be treated as the insured beneficiary and the 
master policyholder will only be the holder of the policy.
c. it shall be the duty of the insurer to issue certificate of insurance to the members 
of the group. Such certificate shall contain information on the schedule of 
benefits, the premium charged and important terms and conditions of the 
insurance contract. 
(5) Issuance of policies of group insurance shall be in a manner as specified.
11 | P a g e
Privacy and Confidentiality 
18. Subject to ensuring compliance with the provisions and norms notified under Digital 
Personal Data Protection Act 2023, insurers and distribution channels shall ensure that 
the information and documents collected during the solicitation or subsequently during the 
policy term or at the claims stage are maintained with utmost confidentiality, privacy and 
protected manner.
19. Information collected from the proposal form during the course of solicitation of an 
insurance policy or issuance of an insurance policy shall not be parted or shared with any 
third party, except 
(1) with the statutory authorities in accordance with the existing statutory laws; or 
(2) for the purpose of underwriting the policy or settling a claim under the policy.
20. No Insurer shall insert any clause or condition in the proposal form, express or implied,
thereby obligating the prospect to part or share information.
Chapter 4 
Provisions relating to payment and refund of Premium, Nomination and Assignment 
21. Manner of Payment of Premium 
Subject to ensuring compliance with the provisions and norms notified under Prevention of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002, insurers shall allow for the following manner of payment of
premium:
(1) as prescribed in the Insurance Rules, 1939; 
(2) as recognized by the Reserve Bank of India as a valid mode of payment; and 
(3) any other manner of payment as may be specified. 
22. Refund of Premium 
(1) In the event of any refund of premium becomes due on account of policy cancellation 
or alteration of any terms and conditions of the contract of insurance or otherwise, 
such refund shall be made only to the policyholder or nominee bank account, as the 
case may be, through electronic transfer.
(2) In order to enable electronic transfer of refund and for payment of claims, the insurer 
shall mandatorily collect the details of bank account of the policyholder at the 
proposal stage.
12 | P a g e
23. Nomination 
(1) Provisions applicable to Life insurers 
(i) No proposal shall be accepted unless nomination is obtained as per Section 39 
of the Act. 
(ii) Insurers shall provide a facility for changing the nominee. 
(iii) The fee for Registering Cancellation or Change of Nomination shall not be 
exceeding Rs. 100/- (Rs. One Hundred only).
(2) Provisions applicable to General and Health insurers: 
With respect to all individual and group policies, as applicable, the insurer shall 
obtain nomination at the time of issuance of new policies and at the time of renewal 
for existing policies. 
(3) Provisions applicable for insurers: 
(i) No fee shall be collected for registering a nomination at the time of effecting a 
policy of insurance.
(ii) The nomination effected by a policyholder at the inception of the policy through 
the proposal form and recorded by the Insurer in the schedule of a policy 
document or through an endorsement issued accepting change in nomination 
shall be considered as a valid acknowledgement by the Insurer. 
Assignment 
24. Fee for Granting Written Acknowledgement of the Receipt of Notice of Assignment or 
Transfer: 
(1) The fee for granting a written acknowledgement of the receipt of notice of 
assignment or transfer assignment shall not exceed Rs. 100/- (Rs. One Hundred 
only).
(2) No other fee shall be collected for rendering any other services in relation to the 
assignment or transfer of insurance policy in accordance with Section 38 of the Act. 
 
Chapter 5 
Free Look Period and Servicing of Policyholders 
25. Free Look Period of Life and Health Policies 
(1) Every policyholder of life and new individual health insurance policies except those 
with tenure of less than a year, shall be provided a free look period from the date of 
receipt of policy document, whether received electronically or otherwise, to review 
13 | P a g e
the terms and conditions of such policy.
(2) The insurer shall inform clearly and explicitly to the policyholder about the free look 
period. The free look period for the policies, obtained through any mode, shall be 30 
days from the date of receipt of the policy document.
(3) In the event a policyholder disagrees to any of the policy terms or conditions, or 
otherwise, he shall have the option to return the policy to the insurer for cancellation, 
stating the reasons for the same. Thereafter, he or she shall be entitled to a refund 
of the premium paid subject only to a deduction of a proportionate risk premium for 
the period of cover and the expenses incurred by the insurer on medical examination 
of the proposer and stamp duty charges.
(4) In respect of a linked insurance product, in addition to the deductions under subregulation (3) above, the insurer shall also be obligated to repurchase the units at 
the price of the units on the date of cancellation.
(5) A request received by insurer for free look cancellation of the policy shall be 
processed and premium shall be refunded within 7 days of receipt of such request, 
as stated at sub clause (3) and (4) above. 
26. Principles for Policyholder Servicing
(1) Every insurer shall ensure that the prospect or the policyholders are provided with 
necessary information about various services and shall widely disseminate information
about all the services that may be availed along with the procedure for availing such 
services including the turnaround times.
(2) The insurer shall deliver the services requested for within a reasonable time with speed 
and efficiency and establish a mechanism to obtain feedback for continuous 
improvements.
(3) Every insurer and distribution channel involved in servicing of the policyholders shall 
ensure that all the dealings with policyholders are conducted in a manner such that it 
achieves the following outcomes:
(i) Policyholders are 
a. treated with fairness and impartiality;
b. provided with clear and prompt information in relation to their policies at all 
times; 
c. not faced with unreasonable pressure or advice to change products or switch 
providers; and
14 | P a g e
d. not barred from submitting claims or making complaints.
(ii) Post-sale servicing of policyholders may be enabled through technological 
solutions to provide prompt and efficient services;
(iii) Policyholders’ reasonable expectations are met on servicing standards.
(4) Every insurer and distribution channel involved shall be responsible to achieve the 
outcomes specified in sub-regulation (3).
(5) Distribution channel shall ensure that all policyholders are serviced in accordance with 
code of conduct as may be specified.
(6) No additional fee shall be charged by the insurer or distribution channel or group master 
policyholder for servicing of policyholders in relation to an insurance policy, except for 
such services as may be specified.
 
Chapter 6 
SETTLEMENT OF POLICYHOLDER CLAIMS 
27. Procedure for Settlement of Claims 
(1) Insurers must ensure that all claims raised by policyholders are settled in a timely 
manner.
(2) The processing and turnaround times for settlement of claims shall be as specified 
by the Competent Authority.
(3) All distribution channels shall comply with the code of conduct with respect to
services related to settlement of claims, if any, specified. 
28. Treatment of Policyholders and Claimants 
(1) While settling claims of policyholders or claimants, the insurer or distribution 
channel, as the case may be, shall inter alia ensure the following:
(i) Provide necessary support and guidance for registering claim;
(ii) Provide fair treatment at all times in processing the claim;
(iii) Provide information at various stages of claim settlement;
(iv) Call for all necessary documents as specified in the policy document at one go 
and avoid calling such documents/information in a piece meal manner;
(v) Settle the claims with speed and efficiency within a reasonable time.
(2) The insurer shall call for any additional documents/information, if necessary, with 
15 | P a g e
respect to claim settlement, only in case where fraud is suspected. In all other cases, 
the documents listed in the policy terms and conditions shall only be called for by the 
insurer. 
CHAPTER 7 
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL 
29. Grievance Redressal Procedure 
(1) Every insurer shall have a system, including IT systems, and a procedure for receiving, 
registering and disposing of grievances in each of its offices. Every insurer shall 
publicize its grievance redressal procedure and ensure that it is specifically made 
available on its website.
(2) Every insurer and where relevant, the distribution channel, shall have in place robust 
procedures and effective mechanism to resolve grievances of policyholders and/ or 
claimants efficiently, effectively and in timely manner.
(3) No insurer or distribution channel shall prohibit, bar or discourage any policyholder 
or claimant from lodging any grievance on the electronic platform put in place by the 
Authority. 
(4) The Grievance Redressal Procedure as specified shall be followed scrupulously by all 
insurers and distribution channels.
 
Chapter 8 
Miscellaneous issues 
30. GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
(1) Every life insurer shall inform policyholders through a letter/e- mail/any other 
electronic mode:
a. for participating policies, at least once in a year, the bonus accrued to their 
policies during the year and total bonuses accrued till the year end.
b. for linked policies, all the charges levied, value of the linked policy at the 
beginning and end of the year,
(2) Every insurer shall comply with the guidelines issued by the Competent Authority on:
a. Mis-selling and unfair trade practice;
b. Unclaimed amount. 
16 | P a g e
31. Power of the Authority to Issue Clarifications 
In order to remove any difficulties in application or interpretation of any of the provisions 
of these regulations, the Competent Authority may issue clarifications, directions and 
guidelines in the form of circulars/guidelines.
Part-2 
Operation and Allied matters of the insurers. 
Chapter-1 
32. DEFINITIONS: 
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) “Act” means the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938). 
(2) “Authority” means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India established under the provisions of section 3 of the Insurance 
Regulatory and development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999).
(3) “Advertisement” means a communication, issued through any mode or medium, 
addressed to the public or section of it, the purpose of which is to influence the 
opinion or behaviour of prospects for facilitating solicitation or sale of insurance 
products and includes insurance advertisements and institutional 
advertisements.
(4) “Competent Authority” means Chairperson or Whole-Time Member or Committee 
of the Whole-Time Members or Officer(s) of the Authority, as may be determined 
by the Chairperson.
(5) “e-Insurance Account” or “eIA” means an electronic insurance account for 
maintaining insurance policies issued in electronic form.
(6) “e-proposal” or “electronic proposal” means a proposal form for an insurance 
policy filed in electronic form and the free consent of the prospect obtained in 
accordance with the guidelines issued from time to time. 
(7) “e-insurance policy” or “electronic insurance policy” shall mean a digitally 
signed policy document evidencing the insurance contract issued to the 
policyholder by an insurer in an electronic form.
(8) “e-signature or electronic signature” shall have the same meaning as
specified in the Information Technology Act, 2000 as amended from time to 
time.
17 | P a g e
(9) “Foreign Branch Office” shall mean a ‘branch office’ of the insurer set up outside 
India which means (a) any establishment described as a branch by the insurer; 
and (b) any establishment carrying on either the same or substantially the same 
activity as that carried on by the Head Office of the insurer.
(10) "Insurance advertisement" means and includes any communication issued by 
insurers, insurance intermediaries, through any mode, related to an insurance 
product and intended to result in the eventual sale or solicitation of an insurance 
product from the members of the public, or which urges a prospect or a 
policyholder to purchase, a policy of insurance.
(11) “Institutional advertisement” means an advertisement which is not intended to 
solicit the purchase of insurance policies, but only promotes the brand image of 
the insurers and/or its intermediaries or insurance intermediaries.
(12) “Invitation to Contract” means an insurance advertisement containing the 
detailed information regarding the insurance/insurance products mainly to 
induce the public to purchase a policy.
(13) “Invitation to Inquire”: means an insurance advertisement which highlights the 
basic features of insurance/insurance products issued in any mode to generate 
interest or create a desire to inquire further about them.
(14) “Joint Sale Advertisement” means any insurance advertisement brought out 
jointly by an insurer with its intermediaries or insurance intermediaries as 
allowed by the Competent Authority from time to time.
(15) “Material Outsourcing” means outsourcing of such activities which are assessed 
by the insurers as “material”, based on the factors as may be specified by the 
Competent Authority.
(16) “Misleading Advertisement” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the 
Consumer Protection Act, 2019, as amended from time to time.
(17) “Outsourcing” is defined as the use of third party services by the Insurer to 
perform activities that would normally be undertaken by the Insurer, either now 
or in future but does not include services which are generally not expected to be 
carried out internally by the insurers such as Legal services, Banking Services, 
Courier Services, Medical examination, Forensic analysis.
(18) “Outsourcing Service Provider” means third party service provider who carries out 
the activities outsourced, for Insurers. 
18 | P a g e
(19) “Outsourcing Agreement” means a written agreement entered into between the 
Insurer and outsourcing service provider outlining the terms and conditions for 
services which may be rendered by the Outsourcing service provider.
(20) “Place of Business” means, a regional office, a zonal office, a divisional office, 
branch office or any subordinate office or any other office by whatever name 
called set up within India or a representative or a liaison office of Indian Insurer 
or a Foreign Branch Office of an Insurer set up outside India by the Insurers 
registered in India. 
(21) “Representative or a Liaison Office" would mean a place of business of insurer 
outside India to act as a channel of communication with the principal place of 
business or Head Office by whatever name called and entities in India, but which 
does not undertake any commercial or trading or industrial activity, directly or 
indirectly, and maintains itself out of inward remittances received from abroad 
through normal banking channel.
(22) “Trade Logo” for the purpose of these regulations is a name or a market, such 
as symbol monogram or logo which uses the name of an Insurer as an acronym 
for the purpose of promoting, canvassing and publicizing the Insurer or the 
products and services offered. 
(23) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined 
in the Act, or the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 
(41 of 1999) or the Insurance Rules, 1939 or any other regulations issued by 
the Authority shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those 
Acts or Rules or Regulations.
 
33. Part B of the Regulations shall be divided into the following parts: 
(i) Chapter 2 : Advertisement
(ii) Chapter 3 : Places of business of insurers 
(iii) Chapter 4 : Outsourcing 
 
Chapter 2 
Advertisement 
34. Advertisements 
(1) The information being advertised reflect fair and true picture along with potential 
risks within the products offered and shall not mislead or misrepresent the facts or 
19 | P a g e
features.
(2) Every insurer, while publishing advertisements, shall necessarily include its 
registered name along with its trade name or monogram or logo visible prominently.
(3) Every distribution channel may publish advertisements only as soliciting insurance 
products offered by insurers and not give any impression in the advertisement, as if 
the products are offered by it directly.
(4) No insurer or distribution channel shall publish or cause to publish any misleading 
advertisement. No advertisement shall make any claims or display such information 
which: 
(a) affects the ability of a prospect to identify and discern the benefits of insurance 
products;
(b) disguises or obscures terms and conditions of insurance product;
(c) makes claims beyond the ability of the policy to deliver beyond the reasonable 
expectation of performance;
(d) uses words or phrases such that it hides or underplays the risks inherent in the 
policy from the prospect;
(e) omits to disclose or discloses insufficiently the important exclusions, 
limitations and conditions of the policy; 
(f) contains illegible text (including on account of font size) forming part of the 
advertisement, including a reference to conditions where applicable; or
(g) contains blatantly false or fabricated facts, figures and features.
(5) All insurers and distribution channels shall ensure that mandatory disclosures as 
specified by these Regulations and applicable Guidelines/Circulars are clear, 
conspicuous and legible. 
(6) All insurers and distribution channels shall ensure that static or interactive content 
posted by them on their social media platform or page satisfies the provisions of 
these Regulations and the guidelines issued in this regard.
(7) All insurers shall ensure that advertisement activities that are conducted through 
their distribution channels are subject to adequate controls and oversight such that 
all such advertisements that pertain to the insurer or its products or performance are 
not unfair, deceptive or misleading.
(8) Every insurer and distribution channel shall ensure that they do not engage in any 
unfair trade practices. 
20 | P a g e
35. Every advertisement must be approved by the insurer in writing prior to its issue if the
advertisement is issued by
(1) A distribution channel representing the insurer; or
(2) An insurance intermediary representing the customer if it relates to any insurance 
product.
36. Compliance and Control of Advertisements 
Every insurer and distribution channel shall ensure that it establishes such internal controls,
compliances and such other measures as may be specified.
 
Chapter 3 
PLACES OF BUSINESS OF INSURERS 
37. Opening Place of Business Within India 
(1) All the Insurers shall have in place the Board approved “Plan on Places of Business”
to be reviewed on periodic basis. 
(2) The plan on places of business, shall contain:
a. the total number of new places of business proposed to be opened within India in 
the Metro, Urban, Semi-Urban and Rural centres. 
b. the names of places of business proposed to be opened within India.
c. the proposed capital and operational expenditure expected to be incurred initially 
and at regularly in opening each of the places of business at least for next five 
years.
d. the staff requirement for each of the places of business and its associated costs 
at least for the next five years. 
e. the premium revenue expected to be generated from the proposed places of 
business for the next five years.
38. Every insurer shall have in place Board approved Annual Business Plan for the Financial 
year April-March before the end of its first Quarter.
39. Insurers that fulfil the following conditions are permitted to open places of business within 
India and inform the Authority in a manner as specified: 
(1) Minimum control level of Solvency in the preceding three financial years. 
(2) Expenses of Management are: 
i. within the limits specified under the regulations on expenses of management in 
21 | P a g e
the preceding Financial Year, in case of insurers who have completed five years 
of operations. 
ii. as proposed in the business plan submitted to the Authority through R1 and R2 
applications and/or has received forbearance for noncompliance of Expenses of 
Management Regulations within the first five years of commencement of 
operations.
40. If the insurer is not compliant with the conditions stipulated at regulation 39, such insurer 
shall open a places of business only after obtaining approval of the Competent Authority in 
accordance with the Regulations. Proposals for opening places of business shall be 
submitted in such form and in such manner as may be specified. 
41. New places of business proposed at regulation 40 and approved by the Competent
Authority shall be opened within a period of one year from the date of approval.
(1) After the expiry of the time limit, the approval of the Competent Authority stands 
lapsed. 
(2) Fresh approval may be sought depending on the extant requirements of regulation 
40 at the time of taking fresh approval
42. All places of business, not being specialized places where back-end operations are 
proposed with no customer interface, such as Zonal Offices, Regional Offices or Back-up
Centres etc., shall at the minimum offer policyholders’ services such as collection of 
premium, proposal deposits or attending policies service requests. 
43. Closure or Relocation of Places of Business within India 
(1) Closure or relocation of the places of business within India by the Insurers shall be after 
due consideration of all the factors, including the possible inconvenience to its 
policyholders. 
a. Closure of any place of business or relocation of any place of business, shall be 
approved in advance either by the respective Boards of Insurers or by the Board 
appointed Policyholders' Protection Committee. 
Provided if the closure of any place of business or relocation of any place of business 
beyond the city, is within two years from the date of opening such places of business, 
prior approval of Competent Authority shall be obtained.
22 | P a g e
b. Relocation or change of any place of business, otherwise than within the same city, 
town or village shall be subject to the prior approval of the Competent Authority and 
every Insurer shall submit the proposal of such relocation or change to the 
Competent Authority's consideration in the form to be specified as and when 
required.
c. Minimum of two months advance notice on all the proposed relocations or the 
closures, whether within the same city, town or village or otherwise, shall be given to 
the policyholders serviced by that place of business along with the information on 
alternate arrangements being made to provide services to them.
(2) The conditions on closure of places of business and relocation of places of business are 
also applicable to the places of business opened by the insurers in accordance to 
regulation 39 or 40, as the case may be. 
44. NORMS FOR PLACES OF BUSINESS OUTSIDE INDIA 
(1) An Insurer registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India may 
open a 'Foreign Branch Office' or a 'Representative or a Liaison Office' outside India 
subject to prior approval granted by the Competent Authority. The cost of opening and 
maintaining the ‘Representative or a Liaison Office’ outside India shall be met out of 
insurer’s shareholders’ funds beyond solvency margin requirements.
(2) Opening of 'a Representative or a Liaison Office' or a 'Foreign Branch Office by Insurer 
shall be subject to obtaining the approval or an in-principle clearance from the regulator 
of the host country where such office is proposed to be opened. 
(3) Norms for Opening a Liaison Office or a Representative Office. — Insurers meeting the 
following norms, desirous of opening a representative or a liaison office outside India 
shall apply to the Authority in specified Form.
(a) Compliance with control level of solvency in the preceding Financial Year.
(b) Having a satisfactory track record on market conduct, regulatory compliances,
redress of complaints, etc. and that there are no serious adverse observations on 
the functioning of the company in the records of the Authority.
Provided that Liaison Office shall only engaged in the activities as specified. 
23 | P a g e
45. At the close of the financial year, insurers as a part of its annual report shall furnish such 
detail as may be specified. 
46. Norms for Opening a Foreign Branch Office or Office at IFSCA—The Insurer desiring to open 
a foreign branch office to carry on life insurance or general insurance or health insurance or 
reinsurance business shall make an application in form and manner as may be specified. 
Provided the Insurer shall seek approval of the Competent Authority to open a Foreign 
Branch Office outside India to transact the class of business for which the Insurer has been 
granted the certificate of registration.
Eligibility Criteria of Insurers for Opening a Foreign Branch Office 
47. The Insurers seeking to set-up foreign branch office outside India or Office at IFSCA shall 
comply with the following norms:
(1) The Insurer should have been in operations for at least 3 years. The number of years of 
operations shall be reckoned from the date of issuance of R3.
(2) The Insurers should have the following financials in the preceding financial year:
(a) Solvency requirements for Life insurance, General insurance, Health insurance 
and Reinsurance companies as specified.
(b) Profit for Life insurance, General Insurance, Health Insurance and reinsurance 
companies for 3 years out of the last 5 years.
(c) Having a satisfactory track record on market conduct, regulatory compliances, 
redress of complaints, etc.
(d) Insurer should not suffer from any adverse report of the Authority on its track 
record of regulatory compliances, for 3 years out of the preceding 5 years from the 
date of application.
(3) Where the Insurer is closely held, the Board Resolution in support of the commitment to 
support the operations of the foreign branch office shall be furnished. Where the same is 
widely held, a resolution of the shareholders to support the operations of the foreign 
branch office shall be furnished.
(4) Any other requirement that may be required.
24 | P a g e
48. Terms and Conditions Governing the Approval of the Foreign Branch office.—The approval to 
open a foreign branch office of the Insurers shall be subject to the following terms and 
conditions:
(1) Initial and further augmentation of capital and liabilities of the Foreign Branch Office 
shall be met out of the Insurer's Shareholders' funds. .
(2) Compliance with Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and any other law in force 
governing the operations of such offices outside India.
(3) Compliance with host country's solvency requirements.
(4) The Insurer shall file a copy of the license or the certificate of registration upon receipt 
of the same from the host country.
(5) The Insurer shall immediately report to the Authority any regulatory or supervisory 
action taken by the host country regulator with full details along with the penalties 
imposed and other administrative actions, if any, and the remedial steps taken 
thereafter.
(6) Any adverse report or findings shall be communicated to the Authority as soon as it is 
observed.
(7) The Competent Authority may impose any other terms and conditions while granting 
the approval for opening the foreign branch office outside India.
49. The Insurer shall immediately inform the Authority any adverse findings on the foreign 
branch office operations that are brought to its notice during the course of its monitoring 
or during the course of the review of the reports referred under these Regulations.
 
Sources of Meeting the Capital Requirements of the Foreign Branch Office Set up by Indian 
Insurers 
50. The insurer shall have in place appropriate arrangements to ensure that the policyholder's 
liabilities that arise out of
(1) foreign operations are adequately ring-fenced in order to protect the Indian 
policyholder.
(2) Wherever the Insurer's foreign branch office operations result or likely to result into a 
loss, then additional capital requirements for meeting such loss or for meeting the 
capital or other regulatory requirements, shall be contributed out of the Shareholders' 
funds of the Insurer and no contributions from the policyholders' funds shall be utilized 
to meet the capital requirement of the foreign branch office.
25 | P a g e
51. Further Powers of the Authority 
(1) The Competent Authority reserves the right to call, inspect or investigate any 
document, record or communication pertaining to the foreign branch office set up by 
the Insurer. The Insurer shall furnish such requirements within the timelines specified 
therein.
(2) Notwithstanding the above, where the Competent Authority is of the opinion that the 
operations of a foreign branch office are not in the interests of the Insurer, the 
Competent Authority reserves the right to direct the Insurer to close the said foreign 
operations or to completely divest its stake in the said foreign branch office after giving 
an adequate opportunity of being heard to the Insurer.
52. All insurers shall comply with the directions as may be specified while opening, closing or 
relocating the places of business. 
Chapter 4
OUTSOURCING OF ACTIVITIES BY INSURERS 
53. Applicability 
(1) These Regulations are applicable to all Insurers registered with the Authority 
excluding those engaged in reinsurance business. 
(2) These regulations are applicable to outsourcing arrangements entered into by an 
Insurer with an outsourcing service provider located in India or outside India as 
allowed by the Competent Authority.
54. Activities prohibited from Outsourcing 
The Insurers are prohibited from outsourcing any of the following activities mentioned 
under : 
(1) Investment and related functions;
(2) Fund Management Including NAV calculations;
(3) Compliance with AML and KYC;
Provided, KYC verification through third party service providers is allowed as per 
guidelines specified from to time;
(4) Product designing, all actuarial functions and enterprise-wide risk management; 
(5) Decision making in Underwriting and Claims functions excluding procedural activities 
related to payment of Survival Benefit claims in Life Insurance; 
(6) Policyholders Grievances Redressal; 
26 | P a g e
(7) Decision to appoint Insurance Agents, Surveyors and Loss Assessors; 
(8) Approving Advertisements.
55. Outsourcing Activities Supporting Policy Servicing 
(1) Insurers shall remain ultimately responsible for any such activities that have been 
outsourced for supporting policyholder servicing. 
(2) Where collection of premiums is outsourced by the Insurer, it shall put in place procedures 
and ensure issuance of premium acknowledgements to the policyholders at the point of 
collection of premiums through such outsourced service providers. 
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 
56. The Board of the Insurer shall be responsible for the following functions under these 
Regulations: 
(1) The Board of Directors shall approve and put in place an Outsourcing Policy. The Board of 
Directors, may delegate, the mandate of approving the outsourcing policy, to the Product 
Management Committee constituted under IRDAI (Products) Regulations as amended 
from time to time. The outsourcing policy shall cover the following: 
i. Framework for assessment of risks involved in outsourcing including the 
confidentiality of data, quality of services rendered under outsourcing contracts;
ii. Parameters for determining the cost-benefit analysis for each outsourced activity;
iii. Guiding principles for evaluation of the outsourced service provider including its ability 
and capability to provide the required services;
iv. Norms for implementation and review of the outsourcing policy, determining the 
management’s responsibility for approving, determining the consideration amount 
involved and monitoring the outsourcing arrangements, and delegation of authority 
within the Insurer’s hierarchy;
v. The degree of due diligence required for other than-material outsourcing activities.
(2) Annual review of the summary of the outsourced activities of the Insurer and approval of 
changes to the policy on the basis of the reviewed report. 
(3) Review of exceptions, if any, arising out of the annual review of outsourcing contracts by 
the outsourcing committee. 
(4) Ensuring that the pricing for outsourcing arrangements with related parties or group 
entities are consistent with accepted arms’ length principles.
(5) Conflict of interest with related parties of insurers and distributional channels.
27 | P a g e
57. Role of Product Management Committee 
(1) The Product Management Committee shall inter-alia be responsible for:
(a) Effective implementation of the policy on outsourcing as approved by the 
Board of Directors;
(b) Validating the Insurer’s need to perform the activities proposed for outsourcing. 
Evaluation of key risk associated with outsourcing contracts as specified in the 
guidelines issued in this regard. 
(c) Coverage of the scope of services within the objects’ clause of the Deed of 
constitution of the outsourcing service provider;
(d) Ensuring that the decision to outsource a material activity is supported by a 
sound business case taking into account the cost and the potential benefits of 
outsourcing against risks that may arise, having regard to all relevant 
prudential matters as well as short-term and long term implications. 
(e) Ensuring that the approval to the outsourcing arrangements entered into / 
proposed to be entered into by the Insurer is as per the Outsourcing Policy 
approved by the Board of Directors;
(f) Annual performance evaluation of each of the outsourcing service providers 
and reporting exceptions to the Board of Directors;
(g) Ensuring compliance with the Outsourcing Policy and applicable laws, 
regulations;
(h) Annual review of Outsourcing Policy and submit a review report 
recommendations changes in the policy for board approval;
(i) Identifying risks associated with activities proposed to be outsourced;
(j) Communicating information pertaining to risks associated with material 
activities to the Risk Management Committee of the Board in a timely manner; 
and
(k) Ensuring that outsourcing does not in any way prejudice the interests of 
policyholders.
28 | P a g e
DUE DILIGENCE OF OUTSOURCING SERVICE PROVIDERS 
58. Among other things, an outsourcing arrangement shall be considered material if the 
estimated annual expenditure under an outsourcing contract is likely to exceed 5 % of the 
total expenditure incurred during preceding financial year on all outsourcing activities. All 
insurers shall evaluate the outsourcing arrangements based on the detailed parameters 
for materiality assessment as may be specified. 
59. All outsourcing arrangements assessed as material shall be subject to evaluation of the 
risks. The Competent Authority shall specify:
(1) The risks which, at minimum, shall be evaluated by the insurer;
(2) Due diligence criteria and documentation to be maintained for due diligence process 
carried out. 
CONTENTS OF OUTSOURCING AGREEMENT AND OUTSOURCING TO RELATED PARTIES 
60. Insurer shall comply with the guidelines specified from time to time on the following: 
(1) Mandatory conditions or clauses to be made part of the outsourcing agreement;
(2) Principles to be followed where outsourcing service providers are related parties 
or group entities of insurer or of distribution channels; and
(3) Maintenance of Records.
61. Confidentiality and Security 
(1) The insurer shall satisfy itself that the outsourcing service provider’s security policies, 
procedures and controls will enable the insurer to protect confidentiality ad security of 
policyholders’ information even after the contract terminates. 
(2) The insurer shall ensure that the data or information parted to any outsourcing service 
provider under the outsourcing contracts remains confidential at all times.
(3) An insurer shall take into account any legal or contractual obligations on the part of 
the outsourcing service provider to disclose the outsourcing arrangement and 
circumstances under which Insurer’s customer data may be disclosed. In the event of 
termination of the outsourcing agreement, the insurer should ensure that the 
customer data is retrieved from the service provider and ensure there is no further use
of customer data by the service provider. 
(4) Outsourcing service providers shall handle data shared by insurers in such manner as 
may be specified. 
(5) In the event of termination of the outsourcing contracts, the insurer should ensure that 
the customer data is retrieved from the outsourcing service provider and ensure there 
29 | P a g e
is no further use or misuse of policyholder data by the outsourcing service provider.
62. INSPECTION AND AUDIT BY THE INSURER 
(1) The insurer shall conduct periodic inspection or audit on the outsourcing service 
providers either by internal auditors or by Chartered Accountant firms appointed by 
the insurer to examine the compliance of the outsourcing agreement while carrying 
out the activities outsourced. 
(2) The outsourcing committee of the Insurer may decide on the periodicity and service 
providers to be inspected taking into account the risks associated with the activity 
outsourced. Insurer shall ensure that enabling provisions for the Inspection by the 
Insurer shall be included in the Agreement with outsourcing service provider. 
Measures shall be taken to arrest the deficiencies noticed if any in the inspection or 
audit report.
63. LEGAL AND REGULATORY OBLIGATIONS 
(1) Insurers shall ensure that outsourcing arrangements do not,
a. diminish their ability to fulfil their obligations to Policyholders and the IRDAI;
b. impede effective supervision by the IRDAI;
c. result in their internal control, business conduct or reputation being compromised or 
weakened.
(2) These Regulations apply irrespective of whether the outsourcing arrangements are 
entered into with an affiliated entity within the same group as the Insurer, or an 
outsourcing service Provider external to the group or the one who has been given subcontract.
(3) Outsourcing shall not diminish the obligations of an insurer and those of its Board and 
Senior Management to comply with the relevant law/s and regulations. The Insurer is 
ultimately accountable for all acts of commission and omission of the outsourcing service 
providers. The Insurer’s liability shall not in any way be restricted or limited by way of 
outsourcing. 
(4) All the outsourcing service providers engaged by insurers are subject to the provisions of 
the Insurance Act,1938, IRDA Act 1999, Rules, Regulations and any other orders issued 
thereunder. 
(5) The regulated activities of the Insurance Agents, Insurance Intermediaries including TPAs, 
Insurance Repositories and other regulated entities, as provided in the Insurance Act,
1938, IRDA Act 1999 and Regulations, guidelines made thereunder are not considered 
as outsourcing and therefore not covered by these Regulations. 
30 | P a g e
(6) Subject to these Regulations, Insurance Agents, Insurance Intermediaries and other 
regulated entities of the Authority shall not be contracted for performing any activity other 
than those activities that are allowed under the respective regulations or guidelines 
specified governing their registration or functioning. 
The Competent Authority may issue guidelines with regard to permitting or restricting 
outsourcing of specific activities to certain categories of unregulated entities. 
64. CONTINGENCY PLANS 
(1) Insurers shall establish and maintain adequate contingency plans where the outsourced 
activity is material. These include disaster recovery plans and backup facilities to support 
the continuation of an outsourced activity with minimal business disruption in the event 
of reasonably foreseeable events.
(2) The contingency plans should be appropriate to the potential consequences of a business 
disruption resulting from problems at the outsourcing service provider. It should consider 
contingency plans maintained by the outsourcing service provider and their coordination 
with the Insurer's own contingency arrangements. In particular, contingency plans should 
ensure that the Insurer can readily access all the records necessary to allow it to sustain 
business operations, meet statutory obligations, and provide any information relating to 
the outsourced activity as may be required by the IRDAI. 
(3) Contingency plans should also be regularly reviewed and tested to ensure that they 
remain robust, particularly under changing operating conditions. 
 
65. REGULATORY ACCESS 
(1) Insurers shall, in all cases, obtain an undertaking from their outsourcing Service providers
or include a provision within the outsourcing agreement, giving authorized 
representatives of the IRDAI the right to: -
a. examine the books, records, information, systems and the internal control 
environment in the outsourcing service provider (or sub-contractor as applicable), 
to the extent that they relate to the service being performed for the Insurer, and 
b. access any internal audit reports or external audit findings of the outsourcing 
service Provider that concern the service being performed for the Insurer. 
(2) In cases where Insurer outsources to the service providers outside India, if allowed by the 
Competent Authority, the Insurers shall ensure that the terms of the agreement are in 
compliance with respective local regulations governing the outsourcing service provider 
and laws of the country concerned and such laws and regulations do not impede the 
31 | P a g e
regulatory access and oversight by the Authority. All original policyholder records continue 
to be maintained in India. 
 
PROHIBITION 
66. These regulations shall not be construed to be authorizing any activity which otherwise is 
prohibited by any law or Regulation or Guidelines specified for the time being in force. 
67. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
(1) Insurers shall make such disclosure in its annual report as may be specified. 
(2) Notwithstanding with the above, the Competent Authority may call for details, cause 
inspection in respect of any outsourcing arrangements.
 
Chapter 5 
MISCELLANEOUS 
68. Trade logo 
An insurer using the trade logo shall comply with the guidelines specified in this regard 
from time to time. 
69. Power of the Authority to Issue Clarifications 
In order to remove any difficulties in application or interpretation of any of the provisions 
of these regulations, the Competent Authority may issue clarifications, directions and 
guidelines in the form of circulars/guidelines.
___***___