Handbook on
Health Insurance
Is your insurance company 
listening to you?
If your complaints have not been addressed 
by your insurance company,
please contact 
to register your complaints and track their status
or you may email us at complaints@irda.gov.in 
• 
IRDA Grievance Call Centre 
C Toll Free No.: 155255 
A public awareness initiative by 
.fill, fclf.t;q14<1, 3l'tt"fcrcliffi~ 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY Promoting Insurance. Protecting Insured. 
www.irda.gov.in 
• JI~ INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
!lll!Eil'Elll DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
i 
~~ 
~ ~Ima Bemfsaal 
-
Contents:
1. About this handbook1
2. Health Insurance2
3. Frequently asked questions6
4. Policyholder Servicing TATs 14
5. If you have a grievance 15
1. About this handbook
This handbook is designed by the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority (IRDA) as a guide on 
Health Insurance and gives general information only. 
No information given herein replaces or overrides the 
terms and conditions of an insurance policy. 
Please approach a duly licensed agent or a broker or an 
insurance company registered with IRDA for specific 
information regarding a policy or for any other 
additional information. 
1
2
2. Health Insurance
The term ‘Health Insurance’ relates to a type of insurance that essentially covers your medical expenses. A health insurance policy like other policies is 
a contract between an insurer and an individual / group 
in which the insurer agrees to provide specified health 
insurance cover at a particular “premium” subject to 
terms and conditions specified in the policy. • What a Health Insurance policy would normally 
cover
A Health Insurance Policy would normally cover 
expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred under 
the following heads in respect of each insured person 
subject to overall ceiling of sum insured (for all 
claims during one policy period).
a) Room, Boarding expenses
b) Nursing expenses
c) Feesofsurgeon,anesthetist,physician,
consultants, specialists
d) Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre 
charges, surgical appliances, medicines, drugs, diagnostic materials, X-ray, Dialysis,
chemotherapy, Radio therapy, cost of pace 
maker, Artificial limbs, cost or organs and 
similar expenses. 
• Sum Insured
The Sum Insured offered may be on an individual 
basis or on floater basis for the family as a whole.
• Cumulative Bonus ( CB) 
Health Insurance policies may offer Cumulative 
Bonus wherein for every claim free year, the Sum 
Insured is increased by a certain percentage at the 
time of renewal subject to a maximum percentage 
(generally 50%). In case of a claim, CB will be 
reduced by 10% at the next renewal. 
• Cost of Health Check-up
Health policies may also contain a provison for 
reimbursement of cost of health check up. Read 
your policy carefully to understand what is allowed.
• Minimum period of stay in Hospital
In order to become eligible to make a claim under 
the policy, minimum stay in the Hospital is necessary 
for a certain number of hours. Usually this is 24 
hours. This time limit may not apply for treatment of accidental injuries and for certain specified
treatments. Read the policy provision to understand 
the details.
• Pre and post hospitalization expenses
Expenses incurred during a certain number of days 
prior to hospitalization and post hospitalization expenses for a specified period from the date of 
discharge may be considered as part of the claim 
provided the expenses relate to the disease / 
sickness. Go through the specific provision in this 
regard.
• Cashless Facility
Insurance companies have tie-up arrangements 
with a network of hospitals in the country. If 
3
policyholder takes treatment in any of the net work 
hospitals, there is no need for the insured person to 
pay hospital bills. The Insurance Company, through 
its Third Party Administrator (TPA) will arrange 
direct payment to the Hospital. Expenses beyond 
sub limits prescribed by the policy or items not 
covered under the policy have to be settled by the 
insured direct to the Hospital. The insured can take 
treatment in a non-listed hospital in which case he has to pay the bills first and then seek
reimbursement from Insurance Co. There will be no 
cashless facility applicable here.
•Additional Benefits and other stand alone policies
Insurance companies offer various other benefits as “Add-ons” or riders. There are also stand alone 
policies that are designed to give benefits like “Hospital Cash”, “Critical Illness Benefits”,
“Surgical Expense Benefits” etc. These policies can 
either be taken separately or in addition to the 
hospitalization policy. 
A few companies have come out with products in 
the nature of Top Up policies to meet the actual 
expenses over and above the limit available in the 
basic health policy. 
• Exclusions
The following are generally excluded under health 
policies: 
a)Allpre-existingdiseases(thepre-existing
disease exclusion is uniformly defined by all nonlife and health insurance companies).
4
5
b) Under first year policy, any claim during the first 
30 days from date of cover, for sickness / disease. 
This is not applicable for accidental injury 
claims.
c) During first year of cover – cataract, Benign prostatic hypertrophy, Hysterectomy for Menorrhagia or Fibromyoma, Hernia,
Hydrocele, Congenital Internal diseases, Fistula 
in anus, piles, sinusitis and related disorders.
d) Circumcision unless for treatment of a disease
e) Cost of specs, contact lenses, hearing aids
f) Dental treatment / surgery unless requiring 
hospitalization
g) Convalescence, general debility, congenital external defects, V.D., intentional self-injury, 
use of intoxicating drugs / alcohol, AIDS, 
Expenses for Diagnosis, X-ray or lab tests not 
consistentwiththediseaserequiring
hospitalization.
h)Treatment relating to pregnancy or child birth 
including cesarean section
i) Naturopathy treatment.
The actual exclusions may vary from product to 
product and company to company. In group policies, 
it may possible to waive / delete the exclusions on 
payment of extra premium.
• No short period policies
Health insurance policies are not issued for less than 
one year period.
3.
FAQs on Health Insurance
Q. What is Health Insurance?
Ans. The term health insurance is a type of 
insurance that covers your medical expenses.
A health insurance policy is a contract between 
an insurer and an individual /group in which the insurer agrees to provide specified health
insurance cover at a particular “premium”. 
Q. What are the forms of Health Insurance 
available?
Ans. The commonest form of health insurance policies in India cover the expenses incurred on
Hospitalization, though a variety of products are 
now available which offer a range of health 
covers, depending on the need and choice of the 
insured. The health insurer usually provides 
either direct payment to hospital (cashless 
facility) or reimburses the expenses associated 
with illnesses and injuries or disburses a fixed 
benefit on occurrence of an illness. The type and 
amount of health care costs that will be covered 
by the health plan are specified in advance.
Q. Why is Health Insurance important?
Ans. All of us should buy health insurance and for 
all members of our family, according to our 
needs. Buying health insurance protects us from 
the sudden, unexpected costs of hospitalization 
(or other covered health events, like critical 
illnesses) which would otherwise make a major 
dent into household savings or even lead to 
indebtedness. 
Each of us is exposed to various health hazards 
and a medical emergency can strike anyone of us without any prior warning. Healthcare is increasingly expensive, with technological
advances, new procedures and more effective 
medicines that have also driven up the costs of 
healthcare. While these high treatment expenses 
may be beyond the reach of many, taking the 
security of health insurance is much more 
affordable.
Q. What kinds of Health Insurance plans are 
available?
Ans. Health insurance policies are available from a 
sum insured of Rs 5000 in micro-insurance 
policies to even a sum insured of Rs 50 lakhs or 
more in certain critical illness plans. Most 
insurers offer policies between 1 lakh to 5 lakh 
sum insured. As the room rents and other expenses payable by insurers are increasingly 
being linked to the sum insured opted for, it is 
advisable to take adequate cover from an early 
age, particularly because it may not be easy to 
increase the sum insured after a claim occurs. 
Also, while most non-life insurance companies 
offer health insurance policies for a duration of 
one year, there are policies that are issued for 
two, three, four and five years duration also. Life 
insurance companies have plans which could extend even longer in the duration. 
A Hospitalization policy covers, fully or partly, 
the actual cost of the treatment for hospital 
admissions during the policy period. This is a 
6
7
wider form of coverage applicable for various 
hospitalization expenses, including expenses 
before and after hospitalization for some specified 
period. Such policies may be available on 
individual sum insured basis, or on a family floater 
basis where the sum insured is shared across the 
family members.
Another type of product, the Hospital Daily 
Cash Benefit policy, provides a fixed daily sum 
insured for each day of hospitalization. There may 
also be coverage for a higher daily benefit in case 
of ICU admissions or for specified illnesses or 
injuries. 
A Critical Illness benefit policy provides a fixed 
lumpsum amount to the insured in case of 
diagnosis of a specified illness or on undergoing a 
specified procedure. This amount is helpful in 
mitigating various direct and indirect financial 
consequences of a critical illness. Usually, once 
this lump sum is paid, the plan ceases to remain in 
force. 
There are also other types of products, which offer 
lumpsum payment on undergoing a specified 
surgery (Surgical Cash Benefit), and others 
catering to the needs of specified target audience 
like senior citizens. 
Q. What is cashless facility?
Ans. Insurance companies have tie-up arrangements 
with several hospitals all over the country as part 
of their network. Under a health insurance 
policy offering cashless facility, a policyholder can 
take treatment in any of the network hospitals 
without having to pay the hospital bills as the 
payment is made to the hospital directly by the 
Third Party Administrator, on behalf of the 
insurance company. However, expenses beyond 
the limits or sub-limits allowed by the insurance 
policy or expenses not covered under the policy 
have to be settled by you directly with the 
hospital.
Cashless facility, however, is not available if you 
take treatment in a hospital that is not in the 
network.
Q. What are the tax benefits I get if I opt for Health 
Insurance?
Ans. Health insurance comes with attractive tax 
benefits as an added incentive. There is an exclusive section of the Income Tax Act which 
provides tax benefits for health insurance, which 
is Section 80D, and which is unlike the section 
80C applicable to Life Insurance wherein other 
form of investments/ expenditure also qualify for 
the deduction. 
Currently, purchasers of health insurance who 
have purchased the policy by any payment mode 
other than cash can avail of an annual deduction 
of Rs. 15,000 from their taxable income for 
payment of Health Insurance premium for self, 
spouse and dependent children. For senior 
citizens, this deduction is higher, and is Rs. 
20,000. Further, since the financial year 2008-09, an 
8
9
additional Rs 15,000 is available as deduction for 
health insurance premium paid on behalf of 
parents, which again is Rs 20,000 if the parents 
are senior citizens. 
Q. What are the factors that affect Health 
Insurance premium?
Ans. Age is a major factor that determines the 
premium, the older you are the premium cost will 
be higher because you are more prone to illnesses. 
Previous medical history is another major factor 
that determines the premium. If no prior medical 
history exists, premium will automatically be 
lower. Claim free years can also be a factor in 
determining the cost of the premium as it might 
benefit you with certain percentage of discount. 
This will automatically help you reduce your 
premium.
Q. What does a Health Insurance policy not 
cover?
Ans.You must read the prospectus/ policy and 
understand what is not covered under it. 
Generally, pre-existing diseases (read the policy 
to understand what a pre-existing disease is 
definedas)areexcludedunderaHealth
Insurance policy. Further, the policy would 
generally exclude certain diseases from the first 
year of coverage and also impose a waiting period. 
There would also be certain standard exclusions 
such as cost of spectacles, contact lenses and hearing aids not being covered, dental tr e a tment/s u r g e r y ( unl e ss r e q u iring
hospitalization)notbeingcovered,
convalescence,generaldebility,congenital
external defects, venereal disease, intentional 
self-injury, use of intoxicating drugs/alcohol, 
AIDS, expenses for diagnosis, x-ray or laboratory 
tests not consistent with the disease requiring 
hospitalization, treatment relating to pregnancy or child birth including cesarean section,
Naturopathy treatment.
Q. Is there any Waiting Period for claims under a 
policy?
Ans.Yes. When you get a new policy, generally, there 
will be a 30 days waiting period starting from the 
policy inception date, during which period any 
hospitalization charges will not be payable by the 
insurance companies. However, this is not 
applicable to any emergency hospitalization 
occurring due to an accident. This waiting period 
will not be applicable for subsequent policies 
under renewal.
Q. What is pre-existing condition in health 
insurance policy?
Ans. It is a medical condition/disease that existed 
before you obtained health insurance policy, and 
it is significant, because the insurance companies 
do not cover such pre-existing conditions, within 
48 months of prior to the 1st policy. It means, 
pre-existing conditions can be considered for 
payment after completion of 48 months of 
continuous insurance cover.
10 11
Q
. If my policy is not renewed in time before expiry date, will I be denied for renewal?
Ans.
premium within 15 days (called as Grace Period) 
of expiry date. However, coverage would not be 
available for the period for which no premium is 
received by the insurance company. The policy 
will lapse if the premium is not paid within the 
grace period.
Q. Can I transfer my policy from one insurance 
company to another without losing the renewal 
benefits?
Ans.Yes. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority ( IRDA ) has issued a circular making it 
effective from 1st July,2011, which directs the 
insurance companies to allow portability from 
one insurance company to another and from one 
plan to another, without making the insured to lose the renewal credits for pre-existing
conditions, enjoyed in the previous policy. 
However, this credit will be limited to the Sum 
Insured (including Bonus) under previous policy. For details, you may check with the insurance 
company. 
Q. What happens to the policy coverage after a 
claim is filed?
Ans.After a claim is filed and settled, the policy 
coverage is reduced by the amount that has been 
paid out on settlement. For Example: In January 
you start a policy with a coverage of Rs 5 Lakh for 
the year. In April, you make a claim of Rs 2 lakh. 
The policy will be renewable provided you pay the 
The coverage available to you for the May to 
December will be the balance of Rs.3 lakh.
Q. What is 'Any one illness' ? 
Ans. 'Any one illness' would mean the continuous 
period of illness, including relapse within a 
certain number of days as specified in the policy. 
Usually this is 45 days
Q: What is the maximum number of claims 
allowed over a year? 
Any number of claims is allowed during the policy 
period unless there is a specific cap prescribed in 
any policy. However the sum insured is the 
maximum limit under the policy. 
Q. What is “health check” facility?
Some health insurance policies pay for specified expenses towards general health check up once 
in a few years. Normally this is available once in 
four years.
Q: What do you mean by Family Floater Policy?
Family Floater is one single policy that takes care 
of the hospitalization expenses of your entire 
family. The policy has one single sum insured, 
which can be utilised by any/all insured persons in 
any proportion or amount subject to maximum of 
overall limit of the policy sum insured. Quite 
often Family floater plans are better than buying 
separate individual policies. Family Floater plans 
takes care of all the medical expenses during 
sudden illness, surgeries and accidents.
12 13
Policyholder Servicing Turnaround Times 
as prescribed by IRDA
5. If you have a grievance:
The Consumer Affairs Department of the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) has 
introduced the Integrated Grievance Management 
System (IGMS) which is an online system for 
registration and tracking of grievances. You must 
register your grievance first with the insurance 
company and in case you are not satisfied with its 
disposal by the company, you may escalate it to IRDA 
through IGMS by accessing www.igms.irda.gov.in. In 
case you are not able to access the insurer’s grievance 
system directly, IGMS also provides you a gateway to 
register your grievance with the insurer.
Apart from registering your grievance through IGMS 
(i.e., web), you have several channels for grievance 
registration-through e-mail (complaints@irda.gov.in), 
through letter (address your letter to Consumer Affairs 
Department, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, 3rd Floor, Parishram Bhavan, Basheerbagh, 
Hyderabad:4) or simply call IRDA Call Centre at Toll Free 155255 through which IRDA shall, free of cost, register you complaints against insurance
companies as well as help track its status. The Call 
Centre assists by filling up the complaints form on the 
basis of the call. Wherever required, it will facilitate in 
filing of complaints directly with the insurance 
companies as the first port of call by giving information 
Service Maximum Turn Around Time
General
Life Insurance
General Insurance
Grievances
Processing of Proposal and Communication 
of decisions including requirements/issue 
of Policy /Cancellations
Obtaining copy of the proposal 30 days Post Policy issue service requests concerning 10 days
mistakes/refund of proposal deposit and also 
Non-Claim related service requests
Surrender value/annuity/pension processing 10 days
Maturity claim/Survival benefit/penal interest 15 days
not paid
Raising claim requirements after lodging 15 days
the Claim
Death claim settlement without 30 days
Investigation requirement
Death claim settlement/repudiation with 6 months
Investigation requirement
Survey report submission 30 days
Insurer seeking addendum report 15 days
Settlement/rejection of Claim after receiving 30 days
first/addendum survey report Acknowledge a grievance 3 days
Resolve a grievance 15 days
15 days
14 15
relating to the address, telephone number, website 
details, contact number, e-mail id etc of the insurance 
company. IRDA Call Centre offers a true alternative 
channel for prospects and policyholders, with
comprehensive tele-functionalities, serving as a
12 hours x 6 days service platform from 8 AM to 8 PM, 
Monday to Saturday in Hindi, English and various 
Indian languages.
When a complaint is registered with IRDA, it facilitates 
resolution by taking it up with the insurance company. 
The company is given 15 days time to resolve the 
complaint. If required, IRDA carries out investigations 
and enquiries. Further, wherever applicable, IRDA 
advises the complainant to approach the Insurance 
Ombudsman in terms of the Redressal of Public 
Grievances Rules, 1998.
Disclaimer:
This handbook is intended to provide you general information only 
and is not exhaustive. It is an education initiative and does not seek to 
give you any legal advice.
16