EXPOSURE DRAFT 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
 (HEALTH INSURANCE) REGULATIONS, 2012
Contents
1. Chapter 1 – Short Title and Commencement and Definitions, Definitions
2. Chapter II – Registration of Insurance companies who are exclusively doing health 
insurance business.
3. Chapter III - Product Design and Related Issues
4. Chapter IV – Renewability of Health Insurance Policies
5. Chapter V – Portability of Health Insurance Policies
6. Chapter VI - File and Use Procedure for health insurance products
7. Chapter V II- Protection of Policyholders’ Interest
8. Chapter VIII - Health Insurance Policy Servicing
9. Chapter IX- Third Party Administrators
10. Chapter X - Contract Between Insurer and Hospitals
11. Chapter XI - Submission of Information through Electronic Returns
12. Chapter X II- Valuation of Assets & Liabilities; Preparation of Financial Statements;
Solvency Margin of Insurers and Other Issues
ANNEXURES
I. Portability form
II. Administration of Health Plus Life Combi Products
II. Electronic Return Non life and Life(photo image)
THE INSURANCE REGULATORY AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(HEALTH INSURANCE) REGULATIONS, 2012.
F. No. IRDA/Reg/…./2011 dated ….. - In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 114A of 
the Insurance Act 1938 and Section 14 read with section 24 of the IRDA Act 199 and in consultation 
with the Insurance Advisory Committee, the Authority hereby makes the following regulations, 
namely:-
CHAPTER 1
1. Short title and commencement. 
a.These regulations may be called Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Health 
Insurance) Regulations, 2012
b. They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette by the Central 
Government.
c. Unless otherwise provided by this regulation, nothing in this regulation shall deem to invalidate the 
health insurance contracts entered prior to these regulations coming into force.
d. These Regulations are applicable to all life, non life and health insurers, if any conducting health 
insurance business as defined under these regulations.
1.1 Definitions.
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,--
a) “Act” means the Insurance Act, 1938.
b) "Agreement" means an agreement entered into between a Third Party Administrator and an 
insurance company prescribing the terms and conditions of services, which may be rendered to 
Insurance Company; or an agreement entered into between a Hospital /Health care provider 
and an Insurance Company, and may include TPA as a tri-party, prescribing the terms and 
conditions, which may be rendered to insured persons of the Insurance Company. 
c) “Authority” means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India established 
under sub section 1 of section 3 of the IRDA Act 1999.
d) “Break in policy” A break in policy occurs when the premium due on a given policy is not 
paid on or before the premium renewal date or within 30 days thereof. 
e) “Cashless facility” means a facility provided to the insured by an insurer, to make payments 
of treatment costs directly to the hospital in respect of treatment undergone in a network 
provider, to the extent of approval given in the pre-authorization where such treatment is in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
f) “Health insurance business” means the effecting of insurance contracts which provide for 
sickness benefits or medical, surgical or hospital expense benefits, travel health insurance and 
personal accident cover ;‟
g) "Health Services" means all the services to be rendered by a TPA under an agreement with an 
insurance company in connection with "health insurance business" or „health cover‟ as defined 
in regulation 2(f) of the IRDA (Registration of Indian Insurance Companies) Regulations, 
2000, but does not include the business of an insurance company or the soliciting, directly or 
through an insurance intermediary including an insurance agent, of insurance business.
h) “Health plus Life Combi Products” shall mean the combination of Pure Term Life Insurance 
cover offered by life insurance companies and Health Insurance cover offered by non life 
insurance companies.
i) “Network Provider” means hospitals or health care providers which have an agreement with 
the insurer to settle claims through cashless facility.
j) “Portability” Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance 
policyholder (including family cover) to transfer the credit gained by the insured for preexisting conditions and time bound exclusions if the policyholder chooses to switch from 
one insurer to another insurer or from one plan to another plan of the same insurer, provided 
the previous policy has been maintained without any break.
k) “Senior citizen” means any person who is sixty or more years of age as on the date of 
commencement of insurance policy.
l) “Third Party Administrators or TPAs” means any person who is licensed by the Authority, 
and is engaged, for a fee or remuneration by an insurance company, for the provision of health 
services;
m) All words or expressions not defined in these regulations but defined in the Insurance Act 
1938 or Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act 1999 shall have the same 
meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts. 
CHAPTER II
Registration of insurance companies who are exclusively doing health insurance business 
2. Procedure for Registration
2.1. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Registration of Indian Insurance 
Companies) Regulations 2001 shall apply mutatis mutandis to all insurance companies who 
are exclusively doing health insurance business. 
2.2. All insurance companies who are exclusively doing health insurance business shall satisfy the 
capital requirements as specified by the Authority from time to time.
CHAPTER III
 Product Design and Related Issues
3.1 Entry and Exit Age
3.1.1. All health insurance policies shall provide for entry age at least up to 65 years, 
except for those referred in regulation 3.6.
3.1.2. All health insurance policies shall not have an exit age for renewal of the policies, 
once the proposal is accepted, provided policy is continuously renewed without 
break.
3.2. Term of health insurance policies
3.2.1. For all products offered to individuals, life insurers shall offer products with 
policy term of at least 4 years and non-life insurers shall offer products for not 
more than 3 years 
3.2.2. For all products offered as Group Policies, all life insurance companies and nonlife insurance companies shall offer only one year Renewable Group Health 
Insurance Policies.
3.3. Assignment
3.3.1. No assignment of health insurance policies shall be allowed irrespective of 
whether they are indemnity or benefit based.
3.4. Pan India Access: 
3.4.1. All health insurance policies shall allow access for treatment in network provider 
or in any hospital which is not part of the network provider across pan India
except in unauthorised hospitals excluded from providing health care services for 
health insurance policies.
3.4.2. The insurer shall explicitly state all the terms and conditions with respect to 
availability and availing of treatment across pan India in the policy document.
3.4.3. If different terms are offered for availing treatment across pan India, this shall be 
stated explicitly in all the promotion material and shall have suitable provisions 
built into the proposal form.
3.5. Travel Medical Insurance Policy
3.5.1. Travel medical policies may be offered either as
a. a standalone product or 
b. an add-on cover to existing health policy as and when existing policyholder 
travels by charging suitable premium for the add-on cover as approved by 
the Authority under File And Use Procedure. 
3.6. Option to migrate to suitable health insurance policy:
3.6.1. In health insurance policies, where the covers offered are specific to a particular 
age groups like maternity covers, children covered under a family floater policies, 
cover offered to students etc, insurers shall offer an option to migrate to a suitable 
health insurance policy, at the renewal of the policy or at the end of the specified 
exit age, by providing suitable credits for all the previous policy years, provided 
the policy has been maintained without break.
3.7. Cumulative bonus:
3.7.1. In a health insurance policy, insurer may offer cumulative bonus which shall be stated 
explicitly in the prospectus and the policy document. Such cumulative bonus shall be 
considered along with the sum insured to arrive at the sub-limits. 
3.7.2. If a claim is made in any particular year, the cumulative bonus accrued may be treated 
as below:
a. May be reduced at the same rate at which it is accrued; or
b. May be utilised to enhance the sum insured by accepting the pro-rate premium to the 
extent of cumulative bonus to be reduced in that particular year;
3.7.3. Once the insured opts for 3.7.2 (b), it shall not be reduced in the subsequent years. 
3.8. General Provisions 
3.8.1. Any differences in product specifications for different age groups or for different 
entry ages must be clearly disclosed upfront in prospectus and policy documents. 
3.8.2. Insurer shall not compel the insured to migrate to other health insurance products, 
if it is to the disadvantage of Insured.
3.8.3. Insurers shall ensure adequate dissemination of product information on all their 
health insurance products on their websites. This information shall include a 
description of the product, copies of the prospectus, proposal form, policy clauses 
and premium rates inclusive and exclusive of Service Tax as applicable.
3.8.4. Insurers shall individually and collectively take steps for evolving mechanisms for 
sharing of information among themselves about such persons / hospitals / 
institutions that are guilty of making or supporting fraudulent claims.
3.9. Underwriting 
3.9.1. All insurance companies shall obtain all the required information in the proposal 
form and underwrite the proposals in accordance with the Board approved 
underwriting policy. 
3.9.2. Any proposal for health insurance which is denied on any grounds shall be made 
in writing with reasons furnished and recorded. Such reasons shall be justifiable, 
transparent and fair. The insured shall be informed of any loading charged on the 
premium. 
3.9.3. If insurance company intends to call for any further information at subsequent 
stages of policy with respect to change in occupation or at the time of renewal, the 
insurance company shall:
a. prescribe standard forms to be filled up by the insured and shall make these 
forms part of the policy document 
b. Clearly state the events which will result in submission of such forms. 
c. Clearly state the conditions applicable in such events
3.9.4. Insurers shall devise mechanisms to reward policyholders for early entry,
continued renewals, favourable claims experience etc with the same insurer and 
disclose upfront in prospectus and policy document, as approved under File and 
Use. 
3.9.5. The information that the insurer has already captured at the time of 
underwriting/accepting the proposal, the terms & conditions offered under the 
policy based on underwriting and subsequent claims experience emerged during 
the policy shall form the basis for claim settlement.
3.10. Cost of pre-insurance health check up 
3.10.1. In case of non-life insurers, where the proposal is accepted and subsequently 
resulted into a policy, in all such cases, insurers shall reimburse at least 50% of the 
cost if any, incurred by the insured in pre-insurance medical examination.
 Provided, for travel medical insurance policy where the premium levied is less 
than the costs incurred by the insured in pre-insurance medical examination, the 
insurer may not reimburse the cost of pre-insurance health check-up.
3.10.2. In case of life insurers, where the proposal is accepted and subsequently resulted 
into a policy, in all such cases, insurers shall incur the costs and may suitably 
allow such costs incurred by the insured in pre-insurance medical examination 
within the premium levied to the policyholder.
3.10.3. Insurers shall enlist or empanel government medical institutions and/or other 
relevant institutions from which such pre-insurance medical examination reports 
will be accepted by them. 
3.11. Special Provisions for Insured Persons who are Senior Citizens
3.11.1. The premium charged for health insurance products offered to senior citizens shall 
be fair, justified, transparent and duly disclosed upfront. The insured shall be 
informed of any loading charged on the premium. 
3.11.2. All health insurers and TPAs, as the case may be, shall establish a separate 
channel to address the health insurance related claims and grievances of senior 
citizens.
3.12. Pricing of Health Insurance Products
3.12.1. The premium charged for any health insurance product offered shall be fair, 
justified, transparent and duly disclosed upfront. The insured shall be informed of 
any loading charged on the premium. 
3.12.2. For calculation of premium for health insurance policies, the completed age of the 
prospect on the date of commencement of insurance shall only be reckoned.
3.12.3. For the purpose of providing cover under family floater, the premium levied shall 
take in to account the impact of the multiple incidence rates for all the family 
members proposed to cover and shall be filed under the File and Use. 
3.12.4. The premium for the health insurance products shall be evaluated appropriately 
after assessing the financial sustainability and viability of the product with respect 
to the rates, loadings and discounts.
3.12.5. The discounts and loadings offered shall be objective and disclosed upfront in the 
prospectus and policy document, as approved under the File and Use.
3.12.6. The premiums shall not be allowed to increase for a period of 1 year once the 
product is cleared by the Authority;
3.12.7. In case of revision of premium rates after completion of such period as stated in 
3.12.6, the insurer shall submit under the File and Use Procedure the justification 
for the revised pricing; the recent three years claims experience on the original 
pricing along with the expected experience and the reasoning; expected claims 
experience and the rationale/assumptions for the proposed pricing along with the 
particulars on how the proposed pricing would meet the adversities experienced, if 
any. 
3.12.8. At the time of filing the product under the File and Use procedure, the insurer 
shall provide complete pricing details along with all the assumptions, loadings
allowed in the premium determination.
3.13Loading on Renewals:
3.13.1 If the individual claims experience, for each of the three consecutive policy years 
other than the current policy year, is more than 500% of the premium under the 
current policy, the insurer at the time of subsequent renewal may:
a. Apply the malus as referred in the regulation 3.7.2 (a)
b. Load the premium as per the pre-determined table, disclosed at the outset in 
prospectus and policy document, which is approved as per the File and Use 
procedure.
c. Accept the renewal at the prevailing premium rates without any loading or 
malus.
3.14 Free Look Period
3.14.1 Health insurance policies offered by the non-life insurers having duration of three 
years or more and health insurance policies offered by the life insurers shall have a 
free look period. The free look period shall be applicable at the inception of the 
policy and:
a) The insured has a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the documents 
to review the terms and conditions of the policy and
b) Where the policy holder disagrees to any terms and conditions, the insured has 
the option to return the policy stating his reasons for the objections.
c) If the insured has not made any claim during the free look period, the insured 
shall be entitled toi. refund of the premium paid subject only to a deduction of the expenses 
incurred by the insurer on medical examination of the insured persons 
and the stamp duty charges or;
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the 
policy is exercised by the policyholder, refund will also be subject to a 
deduction for proportion risk premium for period on cover or;
iii. Where only a part of the risk has commenced, such proportionate risk 
premium shall be calculated so as to commensurate with the risk covered 
during such period.
iv. In respect of unit linked policy, in addition to the deductions in subclause(1) of this regulation, the insurer shall also be entitled to repurchase 
the unit at the price of the units on the date of cancellation. 
3.14.2 Non-life insurers may voluntarily provide for free look period even for health 
insurance policies of duration less than three years. The terms and deductions 
admissible in the above sub-clause (1) (a) to (1) (c), as relevant, shall apply to such 
health insurance policies. 
3.15 Upper Limit on the Cover Offered:
3.15.1 For any health insurance policy, if the insurer has prescribed any upper limit with 
respect to the cover offered, the insurer shall not accept any proposal beyond such 
upper limit.
3.15.2 The insurer shall ensure that the systems in place shall accept proposals only up to 
the prescribed upper limits. 
3.15.3 If any proposal is accepted beyond such upper limit, the insurer shall not deny any 
claim on the ground that the policy exceeds the upper limit prescribed for that 
policy. 
3.16 Multiple Policies
3.16.1 If two or more policies are taken by an insured during a period from one or more 
insurers, the contribution clause shall not be applicable for such policies where the 
cover/benefit offered:
a. is fixed in nature;
b. does not have any relation to the treatment costs;
3.16.2 In case of multiple policies which provide fixed benefits, on happening the event 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies, the insurer shall make 
the claim payments independent of payments received under other similar polices. 
3.16.3 If two or more policies are taken by an insured during a period from one or more 
insurers, where the purpose of such policies is to indemnify the treatment costs, the 
insurer shall not apply the contribution clause, but the policyholder shall have an 
option to chose insurer with whom the claim to be settled. In all such cases, the
insurer shall be obliged to settle the claim without insisting for contribution clause.
3.17 AYUSH Coverage
3.17.1 Insurers may provide coverage to non-allopathic treatments provided the treatment 
has been undergone in a government hospital or in any institute recognized by 
government and/or accredited by Quality Council of India/National Accreditation 
Board on Health or any other suitable institutions. 
3.18 Standard Definition used in health insurance policies
3.18.1 All insurers shall adhere to the stipulated definitions, if any, as issued by the 
Authority from time to time.
3.19 Standard Nomenclature and Procedures for Critical Illnesses
3.19.1 All Policies offering critical illness coverage shall ensure that definitions of such
terms and are in line with the definitions stipulated, if any, by the Authority from 
time to time.
3.20 Standard List of Excluded Expenses in Hospitalization Indemnity policies
3.20.1 For the purpose of hospitalization indemnity policies, the generally accepted list of 
excluded items, if any, may be stipulated by the Authority from time to time. 
3.20.2 However, Insurers may include these exclusions as part of the cover, if the product 
design allows for it or if the cover offered includes these as part of hospitalization 
expenses. Insurers depending on the product design, shall clearly state the list of 
excluded items for each product out of the list stipulated, if any, by the Authority 
from time to time and such list shall be annexed to the policy document
3.21 Database for health insurance products:
3.21.1 All insurers filing health insurance products shall complete and submit Database 
Sheet, if any, as stipulated by the Authority from time to time, as part of file and 
use procedure.
3.21.2 The Database shall be certified by the Head of Product Development and 
countersigned by Compliance Officer.
3.22 Withdrawal of Health Insurance Product
3.22.1 To withdraw a health insurance product, the insurer shall take prior approval of the 
Authority by giving reasons for withdrawal and complete details of the treatment 
to the existing policyholders.
3.22.2 Any product that is being offered in the market by insurance companies shall not 
be allowed to be withdrawn in respect of the existing customers of the product, 
unless, the existing customers are given an option to switch to a similar product 
under specific written consent.
3.22.3 The withdrawn product shall not be offered to the prospective customers.
3.23 Customer Information Sheet – Insurer shall provide the customer information sheet to the 
prospective policyholder. The document shall be:
3.23.1 A one page document in legible font, unless the product is a composite product.
3.23.2 In simple language.
3.23.3 Covering key benefits, exclusions and grievance mechanisms.
3.23.4 A complete document in itself, without any reference made to policy document or 
any other document.
3.23.5 Insurers shall design Customer Information Sheet as per the format stipulated by 
the Authority from time to time. 
3.23.6 All Insurers shall file the Customer Information Sheet along with policy document 
at the time of filing product under file and use procedures. 
Chapter- IV
Renewability of Health Insurance Policies
4.1 A health insurance policy shall be ordinarily renewable except on grounds of fraud, moral hazards 
or misrepresentation. The renewal of the health insurance policy sought by the insured shall not be 
denied arbitrarily. And if denied, shall provide the policyholder with cogent reasons for non-renewal 
of the health insurance policy. 
Explanation I:- the insurer shall not reject the renewal of the health insurance policy on 
the ground that the insured had made a claim or claims in the previous or earlier years.
4.2 Insurer shall not compel the insured covered under one health insurance product to shift to 
another health insurance product except in cases where a specific product has been upgraded or 
discontinued with the prior approval of the Authority. 
4.3 Subject to the provisions of these regulations, prospectus of health insurance policy shall contain 
disclosures about the terms of its renewal. 
4.4 The disclosures as aforesaid shall mandatorily contain material information regarding:-
a) coverage and estimated premium for future renewals of the policy
b) disclosure of the maximum age up to when the renewal would be available, if product is 
offered to specified age groups.
c) any changes in the scope of the cover after certain duration of the policy or after a certain agesuch as including but not limited to coverage for pre-existing diseases;
d) whether renewal premium would be guaranteed or subject to revision;
e) the premium being charged at different age slabs;
f) details of specific circumstances where premium could be loaded (or discount withdrawn) by 
the insurer and also to the extent to which it could be done.
g) Procedure and terms for enhancing the sum insured or scope of cover , if any
4.5 The insurer shall provide for a mechanism to condone delay of renewal up to 30 days from the 
renewal due date, in line with break in policy.
4.6 For the purpose of this clause, the insurer shall also state, including but not limited to, the fact that 
coverage would not be available for break in period.
4.7 Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no revision in the premium structure or 
terms of health insurance policies shall be affected without prior approval of the Authority
4.8 The insurers shall intimate such revision to the policyholders at least three months prior to the date 
of renewal of the cover. In such cases where the insurer has revised the premiums or the terms and 
conditions of the policy, the insurer shall send a renewal notice for health insurance policies to the 
policyholder. 
4.9 Where such renewal notice envisages a premium higher than that paid in the previous year, the 
notice shall explain the reason for the increase in premium and also quantum of the increase in 
premium which is in accordance with the disclosures earlier made in the prospectus.
4.10 Benefit based policies where policies terminate on happening of the event as per the terms and 
conditions of the policy; renewability clause shall explicitly state such conditions in the promotion 
material and the policy document. Ex. Critical illness benefits policies. 
Chapter V
Portability of Health Insurance Policies
5.1 A policyholder desirous of porting his policy to another insurance company shall apply to 
such insurance company at least 45 days before the premium renewal date of his/her existing 
policy.
5.2 Insurer may not be liable to offer portability if policyholder fails to approach the new insurer 
at least 45 days before the premium renewal date. 
5.3 Portability shall be opted by the policyholder only as stated in 5.1 and not during the 
currency of the policy.
5.4 In case insurer is willing to consider the proposal for portability even if the policyholder 
fails to approach insurer at least 45 days before the renewal date, it may be free to do so. 
5.5 Where the outcome of acceptance of portability is still waiting from the new insurer on the 
date of renewal
5.5.1the existing policy shall be allowed to extend, if requested by the policyholder, for the 
short period by accepting a pro- rate premium for such short period, which shall be of 
at least one month and 
5.5.2shall not cancel existing policy until such time a confirmed policy from new insurer is 
received or at the specific written request of the insured
5.5.3the new insurer, in all such cases, shall reckon the date of the commencement of risk to 
match with date of expiry of the short period, wherever relevant.
5.5.4if for any reason the insured intends to continue the policy further with the existing 
insurer, it shall be allowed to continue by charging a regular premium and without 
imposing any new condition.
5.6 In case the policyholder has opted as in 55.1, and there is a claim, then existing insurer may 
charge the balance premium for remaining part of the policy year provided the claims is 
accepted by the existing insurer. In such cases, policyholder shall be liable to pay the 
premium for the balance period and continue with existing insurer for that policy year.
5.7 On receipt of such intimation, the insurance company shall furnish the applicant, the 
Portability Form as set out in Annexure „I‟ to these guidelines together with a proposal form 
and relevant product literature on the various health insurance products which could be 
offered.
5.8 The policyholder shall fill in the portability form along with proposal form and submit the 
same to the insurance company.
5.9 On receipt of the Portability Form, the insurance company shall address the existing 
insurance company seeking necessary details of medical history and claim history of the 
concerned policyholder. This shall be done through the web portal of the IRDA.
5.10 The insurance company receiving such a request on portability shall furnish the 
requisite data in the data format for porting insurance policies prescribed in the web portal of 
IRDA within 7 working days of the receipt of the request.
5.11 In case the existing insurer fails to provide the requisite data in the data format to the 
new insurance company within the specified time frame, it shall be viewed as violation of 
directions issued by the IRDA and the insurer shall be subject to penal provisions under the 
Insurance Act, 1938. 
5.12 On receipt of the data from the existing insurance company, the new insurance 
company may underwrite the proposal and convey its decision to the policyholder in 
accordance with the Regulation 4 (6) of the IRDA (Protection of Policyholders‟ interest) 
Regulations, 2002.
5.13 If on receipt of data within the above time frame, the insurance company does not 
communicate its decision to the requesting policyholder within 15 days in accordance with 
its underwriting policy as filed by the company with the Authority in accordance with clause 
6 of IRDA Form R2 of IRDA (Registration of Indian Insurance Companies) Regulations, 
2000 and clause 14-15 of F&U Guidelines (circular no. 021/IRDA/F&U/Sep. 06 dated 28th
September 2006), then the insurance company shall not retain the right to reject such 
proposal and shall have to accept the proposal.
5.14 In order to accept a policy which is porting-in, insurer shall not levy any additional 
loading or charges exclusively for the purpose of porting. 
5.15 No commission shall be payable to any intermediary on the acceptance of a ported 
policy. 
5.16 Portability shall be allowed in the following cases:
5.16.1 All individual health insurance policies issued by non-life insurance companies 
including family floater policies
5.16.2 Individual members, including the family members covered under any group health 
insurance policy of a non-life insurance company shall have the right to migrate from 
such a group policy to an individual health insurance policy or a family floater policy 
with the same insurer. Thereafter, he/she shall be accorded the right mentioned in 
5.16.1 above.
5.17 For any health insurance policy, waiting period with respect to pre-existing diseases 
and time bound exclusions shall be taken into account as follows:-
S. 
No
No of years of continuous 
insurance cover with 
previous insurer (s)
Waiting period to be served with new insurer in 
number of days/years
YY Days 1 Year 2 years 3 years 4 years
I. XX Days at inception (XXno of days as per the policy 
document)
(YY-XX) 
Days
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
II. For 1 year period exclusion:
1 year N/A Nil 1 Year 2 Years 3 Years
III. For 2 year period exclusion: 
1 year N/A Nil 1 Year 2 Years 3Years
2 years N/A Nil Nil 1 Year 2 Years
IV. For 3 year period exclusion:
1 year N/A Nil 1 Year 2 Years 3 Years
2 years N/A Nil Nil 1 Year 2 Years
3 years N/A Nil Nil Nil 1 Year
V. For 4 year period exclusion:
1 year N/A Nil 1 Year 2 Years 3 Years
2 years N/A Nil Nil 1 Year 2 Years
3 years N/A Nil Nil Nil 1 Year
4 years N/A Nil Nil Nil Nil
Note 1: In case the waiting period for a certain disease or treatment in the new policy is longer than 
that in the earlier policy for the same disease or treatment, the additional waiting period should be 
clearly explained to the incoming policy holder in the portability form to be submitted by the 
porting policyholder. 
Note 2: For group health insurance policies, the individual member‟s shall be given credit as per the 
table above based on the number of years of continuous insurance cover, irrespective of, whether 
the previous policy had any pre-existing disease exclusion/time bound exclusions 
6.12 The portability shall be applicable to the sum insured under the previous policy and also to an 
enhanced sum insured, if requested by the insured, to the extent of cumulative bonus acquired from 
the previous insurer(s) under the previous policies. 
For e.g. - If a person had a SI of RS 2lakhs and accrued bonus of Rs 50, 000 with insurer A; when he 
shifts to insurer B and the proposal is accepted, insurer B has to offer him SI of Rs 2.50lakhs by 
charging the premium applicable for Rs 2.50lakhs. If insurer B has no product for Rs 2.50lakhs, 
insurer B would offer the nearest higher slab say Rs 3lakhs to insured by charging premium applicable 
for Rs 3lakhs SI .However, portability would be available only up to Rs 2.50lakhs. 
5.18 Insurers shall clearly draw the attention of the policyholder in the policy contract and 
the promotional material like prospectus, sales literature or any other documents in any form 
whatsoever, that:
5.18.1 all health insurance policies are portable;
5.18.2 policyholder should initiate action to approach another insurer, to take advantage of 
portability, well before the renewal date to avoid any break in the policy coverage due 
to delays in acceptance of the proposal by the other insurer.
5.19 The insurer shall comply with the “Guidelines on Procedures to Be Adopted by 
Insurance Companies on Health Insurance Portability” annexed as Annexure II and as 
amended by the Authority from time to time. 
I I I I I I I 
Chapter VI
 File and Use Procedure for health insurance products
6.1 All new health insurance products are required to be filed as per the File and Use
guidelines and the information shall be furnished in the formats stipulated by the 
Authority from time to time.
6.2 For any revision or modification of the existing health insurance products, the insurer 
shall file as per the formats stipulated by the Authority from time to time along with the 
reasons for the proposed modification. 
Chapter VII
 Protection of Policyholders’ Interest
7.1 The IRDA (Policyholder Protection of Interest) Regulations, 2002 (hereinafter referred as 
“2002 Regulations” shall be applicable mutatis mutandis to all health insurance policies, 
wherever relevant. 
7.2 Unless otherwise inconsistent with this sub-clause, Regulation 8 and 9 of the 2002 Regulations 
shall apply to all health insurance policies.
7.3 Settlement of claim: On receipt of complete documents, an insurer shall within a period of 30 
days offer a settlement of the claim to the insured. If the insurer, for any reasons to be recording in 
writing and communicated to the insured, decides to reject a claim under the policy, it shall do so 
within a period of 30 days from the receipt of complete documents. 
7.4 Timeline for Submission of claims documents:
7.4.1 Insurer may stipulate a time limit latest by which the claims documents should be 
furnished by the policyholder/insured to make a claim.
7.4.2 In case of non submission of timely submission of claims documents, insurers shall 
not repudiate such claims unless and until the reasons of delay are categorically 
enquired about, reasons recorded and the insurers sufficiently satisfy that the delayed 
claims could have otherwise been rejected if reported in time.
7.4.3 All insurers shall develop a sound mechanism of their own to handle such claims with 
utmost care and caution. The insurers shall incorporate additional wordings in the 
policy documents, suitably providing insurers‟ decision to condone delay on merit for 
claims which are not submitted in time, but if substantiated by the insured that the 
delay is beyond his/her control and due to exceptional/ unavoidable circumstances.
Chapter VIII
 Health Insurance Policy Servicing 
8.1 Administration of Network Provider
a. Subject to the provision of these regulations, the Network Provider may be subject to 
change from time to time by the insurer.
b. The insurers shall inform the policy holders at all times, the nearest network provider 
where cashless facility is available and conditions, if any thereof.
c. Insurer shall display and update the list of Network Providers on their website as and when 
the list of Network providers is modified and inform the insured suitably.
d. Where a policyholder has been issued a pre-authorisation for the conduct of a given 
procedure in a given hospital or if the policyholder is already undergoing such treatment at 
a hospital, and such hospital is proposed to be removed from the list of Network Provider, 
then insurers shall provide the benefits of cashless facility for such policy holder as if such 
hospital continues to be on the Network Provider list.
8.2 For the purpose of claim settlement, insurer shall make direct payments to the Network 
provider and to the policyholders by integrating their banking system platform with the 
network provider or the insured, as the case may be.
8.2.1 Explanation: - This shall be applicable to claim settlement of all health 
insurance business. .
8.3 Administration of Health Plus Life Combi Products
8.3.1 The provisions of this regulation shall also be applicable mutatis mutandis to 
Health component of the Health Plus Life Combi Products. 
8.3.2 The administration of all health plus life combi products shall be in accordance 
with the Annexure II, amended from time to time by the Authority.
8.4 Standard Pre-authorization and Claim form 
8.4.1 All insurers shall adhere to the stipulated claim forms prescribed by the 
Authority, if any from time to time. 
8.5 Identity Cards issued to policyholder to avail cashless facility
8.5.1 To avail the benefit of cashless facility, insurers shall issue the Identification
card either through a TPA or directly, within 15 days from the date of issue of 
policy.
8.5.2 The identification card shall carry details of the policyholder and logo of the 
insurer. The validity of card shall not exceed the term of the policy. In case the 
policy is renewed, provisions to be established by the insurer to ensure there 
shall not be any need for re-issue of fresh cards provided there is no change in 
the details of the policyholder. 
Chapter IX
Third Party Administrators
9.1 Health Services:
9.1.1 The insurer shall provide the health services required to the insured to process 
the claims either directly or may utilize the services of the TPA under an 
agreement, who are licensed to provide health services in accordance with the 
IRDA (Third Party Administrators) Regulations, 2002.
9.1.2 The Authority may modify or bring in additional requirements with respect to 
the provisions of the IRDA (Third Party Administrators) Regulations, 2002 
from time to time. 
9.2 Bar on Non-insurance healthcare schemes
9.2.1 The TPA shall offer the health services in accordance with the IRDA (Third 
Party Administrators) Regulations, 2002 only to the insurers registered in India 
and shall not provide any services directly to non-insurance healthcare schemes 
or health insurance schemes promoted, sponsored or approved either by any 
person or by Central or State government. 
9.3 Agreement with insurance company
9.3.1 A copy of the agreement entered into between the TPA and the insurance 
company or any modification thereof, shall be filed, within 15 days of its 
execution or modification, as the case may be, with the Authority. 
9.3.2 More than one TPA may be engaged by an insurance company and, similarly, a 
TPA can serve more than one insurance company. 
9.3.3 The parties to the agreement shall agree between themselves on the scope of the 
contract and the facilities that have to be provided. Such an agreement shall also 
prescribe the remuneration that may be payable to the TPA by the insurance 
company.
9.3.4 Insurers who enter into agreement with unlicensed organizations or companies 
to act as TPA is outside the scope of the provisions of the Act and the 
regulations and the insurers as well as the organizations who style themselves as 
service providers would attract penalty under the provisions of the Act or 
regulations.
9.3.5 The Authority from time to time may prescribe minimum standard clauses to be 
included in the agreement between insurer and TPA.
9.4 Change of TPAs for servicing of Health Insurance Policies
9.4.1 A change in the TPA by the insurer shall be communicated to the policyholders 
30 days before giving effect to the change.
9.4.2 The contact details like helpline numbers, addresses, etc. of the new TPA shall 
be made immediately available to all the policyholders in case of change of 
TPA.
9.4.3 The insurers shall take over all the data in respect of the policies serviced by the 
earlier TPA and make sure that the same is transferred seamlessly to the newly 
assigned TPA. It shall be ensured that no inconvenience or hardship is caused to 
the policyholders as a result of the change. In this regard, the following aspects 
shall receive special attention:
a. Status of cases where pre-authorization has already been issued by existing 
TPA.
b. Status of cases where claim documents have been submitted to the existing 
TPA for processing. 
c. Status of claims where processing has been completed by the TPA and 
payment is pending with the insurer/ TPA.
9.4.4 Settlement /denial of claims:
9.4.5 TPA shall, in the correspondence to the policyholder with respect to
settlement/denial of the claims, state clearly the following:
 “As per the instructions of the insurer, the claim is being 
settled/denied for Rs. on account of . For any further clarifications, you may contact directly to the insurer.”
9.4.6 The above statement shall form the mandatory part of the communication to be 
sent to the policyholder in case of settlement /denial of the claims.
9.4.7 The insurer shall be responsible to see that proper and prompt service is 
extended to the policyholders at all times.
Chapter X
10 Contracts between Insurer and Hospitals
10.1 All insurers shall have an agreement directly with the hospitals to establish the list of 
Network providers. The insurer shall be responsible for carrying out an empanelment 
process of hospitals or health care providers to provide cashless facility to policyholder.
10.2 The insurer may include the TPA as a tri-party in the agreement with the hospital; 
however, the entire responsibility lies with the insurer. 
10.3 The insurer shall develop a proper system of empanelment of hospitals or health care 
providers which summarizes the desired infrastructure for inpatient and day care services 
with respect to hospitals and other health facilities to be empanelled. This process shall be 
carried out by the insurer directly to ensure that the hospital are equipped with all the 
necessary infrastructure to enable the insurer to handle the claim in a seamless manner. 
10.4 The insurance company shall ensure that adequate number of both public and private 
providers shall be empanelled. They shall also make efforts that the empanelled providers 
are spread across different cities of the country and not confined only to metro cities.
10.5 The service agreements between the insurer and empanelled network Providers shall 
make provisions for the tariff applicable with respect to various kinds of health care 
services, non-compliance/default clause while signing the same. 
10.6 The insured shall have access to all the network providers of an insurer to avail 
cashless facility as long as the insurer has a service agreement with the network provider 
and such network providers shall remain unchanged irrespective of change in TPAs. 
10.7 Once a hospital or nursing home is empanelled, the insurer shall enter into arrangement 
with other insurance companies for allowing sharing of network hospitals, transfer of claim 
& transaction data arising in areas beyond the service area. To ensure this, the insurer shall 
sign an agreement with other insurers so that beneficiaries can get seamless access of 
health care services across India.
10.8 The Authority from time to time may prescribe minimum standard clauses to be 
included in the service agreement between insurer and Network provider.
Chapter IX
Submission of Information through Electronics Returns. 
11.1Each insurer shall submit the information regarding health insurance business as specified 
in the forms in Annexure III for the period ending September and March of every 
financial year, within a period of one month from the last day of the respective month, 
commencing with the period ending September 30th (non-life insurer) and life insurers 
commencing from period beginning 1st April 
11.2 The information shall be sent to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, 3rd 
Floor, Parisrama Bhavan, Basheer Bagh HYDERABAD 500 004
Andhra Pradesh (INDIA ) in a compact disc, meeting the technical requirements as 
specified in the Data Manual annexed hereto.
11.3The forms in regulation 11.1 may be amended by the Authority from time to time, if 
required. 
CHAPTER X
12 Valuation of Assets & Liabilities; Preparation of Financial Statements; Solvency Margin of 
Insurers and Other Issues
12.1All insurance companies carrying on health insurance business are required to comply, 
mutatis mutandis, all relevant regulations, directions, guidelines circulars issued by the 
Authority from time to time.
Annexure-I
Portability Form
Part-I
1) Name of the Policyholder / insured (s)
2) Date of Birth/Age
3) Address of the policyholder/insured
4) Details of existing insurer
i. Name of the product
ii. Sum Insured
iii. Cumulative Bonus
iv. Add-ons/riders taken
v. Policy number 
5) Details of the proposed insurance
i. Name of the product proposed/intend to 
take
ii. Sum Insured Proposed
iii. Whether Cumulative Bonus to be 
converted to an enhanced sum insured
6) Reason(s) for portability
7) No. of family member to be included I the policy to 
be ported.
Enclosure: Photocopy of the existing policy documents
Date: Signature of the policyholder
PART –II
1. Whether the PED exclusions / time bound exclusion have longer exclusion period than the 
existing policy: (Please indicate Yes / NO): 
2. If yes, please give written consent to the declaration below: 
“I am aware that the waiting period for the following disease(s)/treatment(s) is ….. days/years 
more than the previous policy terms. I hereby agree to observe the additional waiting period for the 
following disease(s)/treatment(s)
I Signature of the policyholder I 
ANNEXURE -II
Administration of Health Plus Life Combi Products
1) The product of this class shall be named as „Health plus Life Combi Products‟ referred as „Combi 
Products‟ hereinafter in these guidelines.
2) These guidelines do not apply to Micro Insurance Products which are governed by IRDA (Micro 
Insurance) Regulations, 2005.
Guidelines:-
All insurance companies that promote „Health plus Life Combi products‟ shall adhere to the following 
guidelines
1) Scope of Combi Product Class:
1) The „Combi Products‟ may be promoted by all Life Insurance and Non-Life Insurance 
Companies.
2) The „Combi Product‟ shall be the combination of Pure Term Life Insurance cover offered by life 
insurance companies and Health Insurance cover offered by non life insurance companies. Health 
Insurance for the purpose of this product class means effecting of contracts which exclusively 
provide sickness benefits or medical, surgical or hospital expense benefits, whether in-patient or 
out-patient, on an indemnity or reimbursement basis.
3) The Policy Term and Sum Assured limits are as proposed and cleared under File and Use norms.
4) Riders / Add-on covers may be offered subject to File and Use clearance.
5) The premium components of both risks are to be separately identifiable and disclosed to the 
policyholders at both pre-sale stage and post-sale stage and in all documents like policy document, 
sales literature. 
6) The product may be offered both as individual insurance policy and on group insurance basis. 
However in respect of health insurance floater policies, the pure term life insurance coverage is 
allowed on the life of one of the earning members of the family who is also the proposer on health 
insurance policy subject to insurable interest and other applicable underwriting norms of 
respective insurers.
7) The integrated premium amount of the „Combi Product‟ shall be basis for reckoning the threshold 
limit / applicability of extant Regulations, guidelines and circulars etc. issued by the Authority or 
any other statutory body.
8) Commission and Claim payouts in respect of „Combi Products‟ shall be by respective insurers 
only.
9) „Combi product‟ shall have a free look option as outlined in IRDA (Health Insurance Regulations) 
2010. Free Look option is to be applied to the „Combi Product‟ as a whole.
10) The Health portion of the „Combi Product‟ shall entitle its renewability at the option of policy 
holder to have an independent / standalone health insurance policy from Non-Life Insurance 
Company of the respective „Combi 
Product‟. 
2) Tie up between insurers: 
1) It is mandatory that insurance companies offering the „Combi Product‟ shall have in place a 
Memorandum of Understanding covering the modus operandi of marketing, policy service and 
sharing of common expenses.
2) Insurers forming the tie-up shall obtain prior approval of IRDA by duly filing the copy of the 
agreement entered in this regard. Approval may be obtained by any one of insurers.
3) A tie up is permitted between one life insurer and one non-life insurer only. Thus a life insurer is 
permitted to tie up with only one non-life insurer and vice-versa. 
4) Between these two Insurers any number of „Combi Products‟ may be promoted.
5) It is expected that insurance companies would carry out an appropriate due diligence before 
establishing the business relationship for the purpose of promoting „Combi Products‟. Insurers are 
also expected to have a long-term understanding for effective policy service of the proposed 
„Combi Products‟.
6) Withdrawal from the tie-up is generally not desirable. However, in exceptional cases where 
insurers desire to withdraw from MOU they shall obtain prior permission of the Authority. 
7) There shall be specific time frames / Turn around Times (TAT) to be agreed between the 
insurance companies as part of MOU for effective policy service, transmission of premiums 
received etc. at various stages of policy i.e., at pre-sale stage and post-sale stage.
3) Lead Insurer: 
1) As two insurance companies are involved in offering the „Combi Product‟ one of the insurance 
companies may be mutually agreed to act as a lead insurer in respect of each „Combi 
Product‟ marketed with agreed terms, conditions and considerations. 
2) The Lead Insurer for the purpose of these guidelines is the insurance company mutually agreed by 
both the insurers to play a critical role in facilitating the policy service as a contact point for 
rendering various services as required in these guidelines. It is envisaged that the lead insurer 
would play a major role in facilitating underwriting and policy service.
3) The role of lead insurer shall not deter in relying upon the existing operational infrastructure of the 
partner-insurance company for effective policy servicing of „Combi Products‟. 
4) Either of the insurers are not absolved of their responsibility of proactive settlement of claims.
4) Underwriting:
Under the „Combi Product‟, underwriting of respective portion of risk shall be underwritten by 
respective insurance companies, that is; Life Insurance risk shall be underwritten by Life Insurance 
Company and the Health Insurance portion of risk to be underwritten by Non-Life Insurance 
Company. 
5) File and Use:
1) Both the independent products shall be integrated as a single product and filed with a common 
brand name. 
2) Insurers may also utilize the existing insurance products „as it is without modifications‟ that are 
already cleared under the extant File and Use norms by the Authority. 
3) „Combi Product‟ is to be filed at the stage of integrating for getting File and Use approval 
irrespective of the earlier approval to either of products. 
4) „Combi Product‟ filing shall follow the File and Use guidelines in vogue and all such guidelines 
that would be issued from time to time.
5) „Combi Product‟ is to be filed with Actuarial Department of Authority in File and Use formats 
that are in vogue. 
6) The Combi Product shall be approved by the Authority at File and Use.
7) The File and Use application of the „Combi Product‟ shall also specify the following:-
a. Lead Insurer for the „Combi Product‟ and demarcation of functions between insurers for 
carrying out activities:-
b. Procedures proposed for issuance of the premium notices, where applicable and final 
lapse notices in terms of Section 50 of the Insurance Act, 1938. 
c. Where the servicing is to be necessarily attended by the original insurer, the lead insurer 
shall facilitate the policy servicing. As far as the policyholder is concerned lead insurer 
shall be made as the single nodal point for receiving the servicing requests, fulfilling the 
services and issuing acknowledgements. 
d. Results of feasibility study, if any, in giving a limited access to the policydata base of 
policies for effecting over-the-counter policy service requests to the lead insurer.
e. Lead insurer in settlement of claims shall ensure:-
i) Based on the type of claim, the other insurer shall also take proactive measures 
for settlement of claims. 
ii) As far as health portion of „Combi Policies‟ are concerned, they may be serviced 
by Third Party Administrators. 
iii) Where the policies are serviceable directly, the lead insurer shall play a 
facilitative role.
iv) Lead insurer may not to guarantee the settlement of claim on behalf of the other 
insurer. The risks accepted by one insurer under „Combi Product‟ shall not affect 
the business of other insurance company.
v) The operational procedures proposed to be put in place for timely dispatch of the 
policy bond of „Combi Products‟.
f. Filing the advertisements in accordance with IRDA (Insurance Advertisements and 
Disclosures) Regulations, 2000 within 30 days from the date of issuing the advertisement 
with Authority.
g. Proposed procedures for obtaining the prior approval of IRDA for issuing Joint Sale 
Advertisements along with the common corporate agents.
h. The results of the cost benefit analysis carried out by both the insurers.
i. The modus operandi of proposed policy service at various stages of the policy viz., 
proposal stage, policy servicing, premium collection arrangements and claims service 
etc.
j. The Information Technology systems put in place for supporting the sale and policy 
service of the „Combi Products‟.
k. Agreement on reimbursement of expenses in consideration of common services rendered 
by each other of insurance companies.
l. Distribution Channel wise maximum commission allowed under the „Combi Products‟. 
m. The manner in which premium is proposed to be collected subject to provisions of 
Section 64 VB of Insurance Act, 1938.
n. The procedures put in place for expeditious transfer of the portion of premium that 
pertains to the other insurer of the product. 
o. Operational procedures put in place for updating premium on policy data base on a real 
time basis.
p. Proposal forms to be used for „Combi Products‟ 
q. The Terms and Conditions under which the Health portion of the „Combi 
Product‟ entitles its renewability at the option of policy holder to have an independent / 
standalone health insurance policy from Non-Life Insurance Company of the respective 
„Combi Product‟.
r. Options available to policyholders of „Combi Products‟ to discontinue either portion of 
risk coverage while continuing with the other portion.
s. Copy of proposed common Sales Literature / Sales Illustrations to be issued by both the 
insurers in respect of „Combi Products‟.
t. Common Advertisements of „Combi Products‟ shall be restricted to the features, terms 
and conditions of the „Combi Product‟. 
6) Distribution Channel: 
1) The sale of „Combi Product‟ shall be through:-
a. Direct Marketing channels
b. Brokers and
c. Composite Individual and Corporate Agents, common to both insurers
2) „Combi Products‟ are not allowed to be marketed through „Bank Referral‟ arrangements.
3) Insurers shall ensure that the „Combi Product‟ is not marketed by those insurance 
intermediaries who are not authorized to market either of the products of either of the 
insurers. 
7) Mandatory Minimum Disclosures:
1) The mandatory minimum disclosures for a Combi Product shall be;
a) The product is jointly offered by abc insurance company (specify non-life insurer name) 
and xyz insurance company (specify life insurer name)
b) The risks of this „Combi Product‟ are distinct and are assumed / accepted by respective 
insurance companies.
c) The liability to settle the claim benefits vests with respective insurers that is for health 
insurance benefits abc insurance company (specify non-life insurer name) and for life 
insurance benefits xyz insurance company (Specify life insurer name)
d) The legal/quasi legal disputes, if any, shall be dealt with the respective insurers for 
respective benefits
e) The policy holders of the „Combi Product‟ under reference shall be eligible to continue with 
either part of the policy discontinuing the other during the policy term.
f) Where guaranteed renewability of health insurance plan is allowed, the health insurance 
portion of this „Combi Product‟ is entitled to that facility
g) Specific Disclosures on the available premium payment options on these „Combi Products‟.
h) Specific Disclosures about the available Policy Servicing facilities for these „Combi 
Products‟.
i) Specific Disclosures about the proposed claims service of these policies under both the risks.
j) Specific Disclosures on the availability of services of „Third Party Administrators (TPAs)‟ 
for health insurance portion of risk, if available.
k) Specific Disclosures on the available Grievances Redressal Options including particulars of 
Ombudsman under these „Combi products‟.
l) Policyholders are to be advised to familiarize themselves with the policy benefits and policy 
service structure of the „Combi Product‟ before deciding to purchase the policy.
2) Policy documents of „Combi Products‟ shall contain the above referred points c, d, e, f, g, h, i and 
k as minimum disclosures.
3) Declaration from the prospect shall be obtained and attached to proposal form that he / she has 
understood the disclosures mentioned at a), b), h) and i) above.
8) In respect of „Combi Products‟ both the insurers shall comply with the provisions Insurance Act, 
1938 and Regulations notified there under and other guidelines, circulars that are applicable to 
health insurance business and life insurance business respectively.
9) For the purpose of these guidelines non-life insurance company includes standalone health 
insurance Company also.
10) In order to monitor the progress of the penetration of the product class before enlarging the scope 
of the same all insurance companies that are marketing „Combi Products‟ shall submit the 
information that is required by the Authority from time to time.
11) The Authority may stipulate such other terms and conditions from time to time for monitoring 
activities of insurance companies offering „Combi Products‟.
Annexure-III
Data Format – Life Insurer
All data submitted must be in ASCII format.
HEALTH DATA DICTIONERY
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
1 Txt_TPA_Code Text 5 150001 Please enter TPA Registration
number. Please refer "TPA
Master" attached
2 Txt_Insurer_Code Text 3 150002 Please enter Insurer
Registration number. Please
refer "Insurer Master" attached
3 Txt_U_W_Office_Code Text 20 150003 Branch/ Divisional Office Code
or Name as available. If Branch/
Division not applicable, enter '0'
4 Txt_Policy_Number Text 50 150004 Self explanatory
5 Txt_Member_Reference_ Text 50 150005 TPAs & Insurers should ensure
Key that the Member Reference Key
(MRK) is a unique number
denoting each individual
member.
6 Date_Of_Birth Date 10 150006 Date of birth of the insured
member dd/mm/yyyy
7 Num_Age_Of_Insured Numeric 3 150007 Completed years at
commencement of policy
8 Date_Policy_Start Date 10 150008 Date of commencement of policy
dd/mm/yyyy
9 Date_Policy_End Date 10 150009 Date of expiry of policy
dd/mm/yyyy
10 Boo_Pre-Existing_Diseases Boolean 1 150012 If Pre-Existing Diseases are
_Covered covered, enter '1', other wise
enter '0'
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
11 Boo_Waiver_Of_1St_Year_ Boolean 1 150013 If this exclusion is waived, enter
Exclusion '1', otherwise enter '0'
12 Boo_Maternity_Cover Boolean 1 150014 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
13 Boo_Baby_Cover_As_Part_ Boolean 1 150015 If this cover is given, enter '1',
Of_ Maternity otherwise enter '0'
14 Boo_Floater_Applicable Boolean 1 150016 If floater is applicable enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
15 Num_Corporate_Floater_Su Numeric 16 150017 Buffer amount - (Amount that
m_ Insured floats over entire policy)
Applicable only for Corporate
Floater Policies
16 Num_Group_Size Numeric 8 150018 Number of members in the
group
17 Txt_Gender Text 1 150019 1-Male, 2- Female, 3- Others
18 Num_Sum_Insured Numeric 16 150020 Individual Hospitalisation Sum
Insured. Specific Sum Insured
for the Member excluding any
Floater or Bonus Sum Insured.
19 Txt_Relationship_Of_Insured Text 2 150021 Refer Relationship Master
20 Txt_Occupation Text 3 150022 Refer Occupation Master
21 Num_Policy_Premium Numeric 16 150023 Premium on which Service Tax
is calculated. For 'Universal
Health Type policies, premium
will be 'Net Final Premium'
inclusive of all subsidies.
22 Num_Individual_Premium Numeric 16 150024 Individual Premium on which
Service Tax is calculated. (If
available)
23 Txt_Claim_Number Text 20 150025 Unique number generated by
TPA
24 Txt_Diagnosis_Code_Primary Text 20 150027 ICD-10 Code applicable for
disease - Primary diagnosis.
25 Txt_Procedure_Description_ Text 50 150028 Description of procedure -
Primary Primary procedure
26 Txt_Name_Of_The_Hospital Text 50 150029 Full Name of Hospital
27 Txt_Registration_Number_Of Text 20 150030 Registration Number allotted by
_ Hospital appropriate authority, if available
28 Txt_Pan_Of_Hospital Text 20 150031 Income Tax Perrmanent
Account Number of hospital
29 Txt_Pin_Code_Of_Hospital Text 10 150032 6 digit Postal Pin Code. Refer
Pincode Master
30 Date_Of_Admission Date 10 150033 Self explanatory dd/mm/yyyy
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
31 Date_Of_Discharge Date 10 150034 Self explanatory dd/mm/yyyy
32 Num_Total_Amount_Claimed Numeric 16 150035 Total amount claimed for the
particular incident without any
bifurcation (Include amounts
under various subdivisions from
150036 to 150043 and 150085,
150120,150121)
33 Num_Room_&_Nursing_ Numeric 16 150036 Amount Claimed classified as
Charges_ Claimed Room & Nursing Charges
incurred between date of
admission and discharge.
Inclusive of ICU charges, patient
diet, HVAC and other room
chanrges
34 Num_Surgery_Charges_ Numeric 16 150037 Amount Claimed classified as
Claimed Surgery Charges incurred
between date of admission and
discharge. including Surgeon/
Asstt. Surgeon/ Anesthestist
fees but Excluding OT charges
35 Num_Consultation_Charges Numeric 16 150038 Amount Claimed classified as
_Claimed Consultation Charges incurred
between date of admission and
discharge, exclusing Surgery
Charges.
36 Num_Investigation_Charges Numeric 16 150039 Amount Claimed classified as
_Claimed Investigation Charges incurred
between date of admission and
discharge.
37 Num_Medicine_Charges_Cl Numeric 16 150040 Amount Claimed classified as
aimed Medicine Charges incurred
between date of admission and
discharge.
38 Num_Miscellaneous_Charges Numeric 16 150041 All unspecified expenses
_Claimed incurred between date of
admission and discharge, other
than those claimed above.
39 Num_Pre_Hospitalisation_ Numeric 16 150042 Total amount claimed for preExpenses_Included_Under_ hospitalisation treatment without
150035_Claimed any bifurcation.
40 Num_Post_Hospitalisation_ Numeric 16 150043 Total amount claimed for postExpenses_Included_Under_ hospitalisation treatment without
150035_Claimed any bifurcation
41 Num_Total_Claim_Paid Numeric 16 150046 Total amount of claim paid for
the particular incident without
any bifurcation (on amounts
claimed under various
subdivisions from 150036 to
150043, 150085,
150120,150121)
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
42 Txt_Reason_For_Rejection_ Text 3 150047 Refer Rejection/ Reduction
Of_ Claim Master
43 Num_Floater_Amount Numeric 16 150048 If 150016 is "1", amount to be
filled up in case of "Proposer" or
"Employee" only. In all other
cases, leave blank.
44 Txt_Remarks_Of_TPA Text 50 150049 Remarks of TPA
45 Boo_Post_Hospitalization_ Boolean 1 150050 If this cover is given, enter '1',
Beyond_60_Days_Is_Covered otherwise enter '0'
46 Boo_Out_Patient_Cover Boolean 1 150051 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
47 Boo_Baby_Cover_From_ Boolean 1 150052 If this cover is given, enter '1',
Date_Of_ Birth otherwise enter '0'
48 Boo_Ambulance_Cover Boolean 1 150053 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
49 Boo_Health_Check_Up Boolean 1 150054 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
50 Boo_Any_Pre_Existing_ Boolean 1 150055 If declared, enter '1', otherwise
Diseases_ Declared enter '0'
51 Txt_Pre_Existing_Diseases_ Text 20 150056 Refer 'Top 20 PED Master' for
Code_ Primary disease - Primary level
52 Txt_Diagnosis_Code_ Text 20 150057 ICD-10 Code applicable for
Additional disease - additional diagnosis
53 Txt_Procedure_Code_ Text 50 150059 ICD 10 PCS Codes - additional
Additional procedure
54 Txt_Medical_History Text 255 150061 Medical History - as given in
claims documents
55 Txt_Hospital_Code Text 20 150062 Refer Unique Id for hospital in
Hospital Master
56 Boo_Policy_Or_Endorsement Boolean 1 150063 If Policy, enter '1', if
Endorsement enter '0'.
57 Txt_Endorsement_Number Text 50 150064 Self explanatory
58 Txt_Procedure_Code_Primary Text 50 150065 ICD 10 PCS Codes - Primary
prodcedure
59 Txt_Procedure_Description_ Text 50 150066 Description of procedure - any
Additional additional procedure
60 Txt_Pre_Existing_Diseases_ Text 20 150068 Refer 'Top 20 PED Master' for
Code_ Additional disease - Additional, if any
61 Txt_Reason_For_Reduction Text 3 150072 Refer Rejection/ Reduction
_Of_ Claim Master
62 Txt_Type_Of_Claim_PaymentText 3 150073 Refer Claim Payment Type
Master
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
63 Num_Family_Floater_Sum_ Numeric 16 150074 Buffer amount - (Amount that
Insured floats over entire policy)
Applicable only for Family
Floater Policies
64 Num_Declaration_Floater_ Numeric 17 150075 Buffer amount - (Amount that
Sum_ Insured floats over entire policy)
Applicable only for Declaration
Floater Policies
65 Boo_Maternity_Cover_Given Boolean 1 150080 If covered with waiting period,
_With_A_ Waiting_Period enter '1', otherwise enter '0'
66 Txt_Endorsement_Type Text 3 150081 Refer Endorsement Type Master
67 Boo_Claim_Made_Under_ Boolean 1 150082 If claim is under alternate
Alternate_ Medicine medicine, enter '1', if not enter
'0'
68 Txt_System_Of_Medicine_ Text 3 150083 Refer System of Medicine Code
Used Master
69 Boo_Hospital_Is_Networked Boolean 1 150084 If hospital is networked, enter '1',
if not enter '0'
70 Num_Other_Non_Hospital_ Numeric 16 150085 All non-hosptital expenses
Expenses claimed as part of the claim e.g.
telephone charges, attendent
food etc.
71 Num_Amount_Of_Co_Payme Numeric 16 150086 If applicable on a lumpsum
nt_Or_Access_If_Applicable basis, state amount of copayment or excess applicable.
72 Num_Opening_Claims_Outs Numeric 12 150089 Amount of Claims outstanding at
tanding_As_ On_31_3_2008 the beginning of Financial Year
73 Num_Claims_Paid_During_T Numeric 12 150090 Amount of total of all claims paid
he_Period_1- 4-2008_To_ during the Financial Year
31_3_2009
74 Num_Closing_Claims_Outst Numeric 12 150091 Amount of Claims outstanding at
anding_As_ On_31_3_2009 the end of Financial Year
75 Txt_Metro_Nonmetro_Urban Text 1 150092 Whether policy holder location is
_Rural 1=Metro, 2=Urban other than
metro and 3=Rural. Metros are 4
metros including Banglore and
Hyderabad.
76 Date_Of_Payment Date 10 150093 Date of cheque issued/cash paid
to the insured in dd/mm/yyyy
77 Txt_Payment_Reference_ Text 25 150094 Payment Reference Number
Number allotted by TPA/Insurer
78 Boo_Policy_Having_Co- Boolean 1 150095 If Policy is with Co-Insurance,
Insurance enter '1' otherwise enter '0'
79 Num_Your_Co_Insurance_ Numeric 6 150096 If Co-Insurance is there, mention
Share your share in percentage
(nnn.nn). If no Co-Insurance,
mention 100.
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
80 Date_Member_Entry Date 10 150097 Member's entry date into policy
dd/mm/yyyy
81 Date_Member_Exit Date 10 150098 Member's exit date from policy
dd/mm/yyyy
82 Date_Claim_Intimation Date 10 150099 Date on which claim is intimated
83 Num_Bonus_Sum_Insured Numeric 16 150100 Sum Insured added as Bonus.
84 Txt_Unq_Product_Code Text 20 150101 Give File & Use Product Code
issued by IRDA
85 Txt_Coverage_Scope Text 30 150102 Refer Coverage Scope Master
86 Txt_Payout_Basis Text 3 150103 Refer Payout Basis Master
87 Txt_Insured_Type Text 3 150104 Refer Insured Type Master
88 Txt_Policy_Term Text 3 150105 Enter Policy period in years
89 Txt_Contract_Acceptance_ Text 255 150106 Mention contract acceptance
Special_ Term terms of the product and policy
type
90 Boo_Type_Of_Premium Boolean 1 150107 If 1st time premium, enter '1' else
enter '0' for Renewal premium.
91 Txt_Other_Co-Insurance_ Text 50 150108 Provide name of Co-Insurer and
Share their share in free text
92 Num_Premium_Discount Numeric 16 150109 Mention discount amount on
premium
93 Boo_Whether_Sub_Standard Boolean 1 150110 Not Coverable as a normal
_Cases case/rates, but covered as a
special case. If Sub_Standard
Case, enter '1', otherwise enter
'0'.
94 Txt_Sub_Standard_Cases Text 50 150111 If 150110 is '1' then Mention
substandard cases details
95 Txt_If _Ped_Code_Is_99_ Text 50 150112 If PED code is 99 i.e. others,
Description provide description of the preexisting disease
96 Txt_Reason_For_ Text 3 150113 Enter 1 for Illness, 2 for Injury
Hospitalisation and 3 for Maternity
97 Txt_Reason_For_Injury Text 3 150114 If field 150113 is Injury, Enter '1'
for Alcohal Consumption or 2 ro
Sabstance Abyse.
98 Txt_Master_Claim_Id Text 20 150115 Provide master claim id/no. In
case of multiple payments made
under of single incident of claim,
a master id should be given and
subsequent payments should
contain child number.
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
99 Txt_Child_Claim_Id Text 20 150116 Provide child claim id/no. under
master claim id/no. above
100 Txt_Treating_Doctor_ Text 50 150117 Provide Registration number of
Registration_ Number the Medical Practitioner caring
for the patient during
hospitalisation
101 Txt_Type_Of_Admission Text 3 150118 Enter 1 for emergency, 2 for
Planned, 3 for Day Care
102 Txt_Details_Of_Lumpsum_ Text 3 150119 Enter 1 - Hospital Daily Cash, 2
Or_Cash_ Benefit_Claimed for Surgical Cash, 3 for Critical
Illness benefit, 4 for
Covalescence, 5 for Pre/Post
Hospitalisation Lumpsum Benefit
and 99 for Others.
103 Txt_Room_Category_ Text 3 150120 Enter 1 for Single bed, 2 for Twin
Occupied Sharing, 3 for three or more
beds and 4 Day care
104 Num_Professional_Charges Numeric 16 150121 This field will contain Surgeon/
_Claimed Asstt. Surgeon/ Anaesthesist
Charges Claimed
105 Num_ot_Charges_Claimed Numeric 16 150122 Amount Claimed classified as
Operation Theatre Charges
incurred between date of
admission and discharge.
106 Num_Surgical_Implant Numeric 16 150123 Amount Claimed classified as
Charges_Claimed Surgical Implant Charges
incurred between date of
admission and discharge.
107 Num_Room_&_Nursing_ Numeric 16 150124 Claim amount paid classified as
Charges_ Paid Room & Nursing Charges
between date of admission and
discharge.Inclusive of ICU
charges, patient diet, HVAC and
other room chanrges
108 Num_Surgery_Charges_ Numeric 16 150125 Claim amount paid classified as
Paid Surgery Charges incurred
between date of admission and
discharge. including Surgeon/
Asstt. Surgeon/ Anesthestist
fees but Excluding OT charges
109 Num_Professional_Charges Numeric 16 150126 This field will contain Surgeon/
_Paid Asstt. Surgeon/ Anaesthesist
Charges Paid
110 Num_Consultation_Charges Numeric 16 150127 Claim amount paid classified as
_Paid Consultation Charges between
date of admission and
discharge., exclusing Surgery
Charges.
111 Num_Investigation_Charges Numeric 16 150128 Claim amount paid classified as
_Paid Investigation Charges between
date of admission and discharge.
41
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIELD TYPE SIZE
DICTIONAR
Y
REFERENCE
112 Num_ot_Charges_Paid Numeric 16 150129 Claim amount paid classified as
Operation Theatre Charges
between date of admission and
discharge.
113 Num_Medicine_Charges_Paid Numeric 16 150130 Claim amount paid classified as
Medicine Charges between date
of admission and discharge.
114 Num_Surgical_Implant_ Numeric 16 150131 Claim amount paid classified as
Charges_Paid Surgical Implant Charges
between date of admission and
discharge.
115 Num_Miscellaneous_Charges Numeric 16 150132 All unspecified expenses paid
_Paid between date of admission and
discharge, other than those paid
above.
116 Num_Pre_Hospitalisation_E Numeric 16 150133 Total amount paid for prexpenses_Included_Under_1 hospitalisation treatment without
50046_Paid any bifurcation.
117 Num_Post_Hospitalisation_ Numeric 16 150134 Total amount paid for postExpenses_Included_Under_ hospitalisation treatment without
150046_Paid any bifurcation
118 Num_Co_Payment_ Numeric 16 150135 Provide Co-Payment
Dedcuctible Dedcuctible Amount.
119 Date_of_Receipt_Of Date 10 150136 Enter Date on which full claim
_Complete_Claim_Document documents are received.
120 Boo_Whether_Claim_Paid_ Boolean 1 150137 If claim paid is for
for_ PED Pre_Existing_Diseases, Enter
'1', if not enter'0'.
121 Txt_If_Yes_PED_Code Text 3 150138 If field 150134 is '1', enter PED
code from PED Master.
HEALTH L1 - POLICY FORMAT
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA REMARKS
FIEL
D TYPE SIZE DICTIONARY
REFERENCE
1 Txt_TPA_Code Text 5 150001 Please enter TPA Registration
number. Please refer "TPA Master"
attached
2 Txt_Insurer_Code Text 3 150002 Please enter Insurer Registration
number. Please refer "Insurer
Master" attached
3 Txt_U_W_Office_Code Text 20 150003 Branch/ Divisional Office Code or
Name as available. If Branch/ Division
not applicable, enter '0'
4 Txt_Policy_Number Text 50 150004 Self explanatory
5 Txt_Unq_Product_Code Text 20 150101 Give File & Use Product Code issued
by IRDA
6 Date_Policy_Start Date 10 150008 Date of commencement of policy
dd/mm/yyyy
42
7 Date_Policy_End Date 10 150009 Date of expiry of policy dd/mm/yyyy
8 Txt_Coverage_Scope Text 30 150102 Refer Coverage Scope Master
9 Txt_Payout_Basis Text 3 150103 Refer Payout Basis Master
10 Txt_Insured_Type Text 3 150104 Refer Insured Type Master
11 Txt_Policy_Term Text 3 150105 Enter Policy period in years
12 Txt_Contract_Acceptance_ Text 25 150106 Mention contract acceptance terms of
Special_Term 5 the product and policy type
13 Boo_Type_of_Premium Boolean 1 150107 If 1st time premium, enter '1' else
enter '0' for Renewal premium.
14 Num_Policy_Premium Numeric 16 150023 Premium on which Service Tax is
calculated. For 'Universal Health Type
policies, premium will be 'Net Final
Premium' inclusive of all subsidies.
15 Boo_Post_Hospitalization_ Boolean 1 150050 If this cover is given, enter '1',
beyond_ 60_days_is_Covered otherwise enter '0'
16 Boo_Out_patient_cover Boolean 1 150051 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
17 Boo_Baby_Cover_from_Date_of Boolean 1 150052 If this cover is given, enter '1',
_Birth otherwise enter '0'
18 Boo_Ambulance_Cover Boolean 1 150053 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
19 Boo_Health_Check_Up Boolean 1 150054 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
20 Boo_Policy_or_Endorsement Boolean 1 150063 If Policy, enter '1', if Endorsement
enter '0'.
21 Txt_Endorsement_Number Text 50 150064 Self explanatory
22 Txt_Endorsement_Type Text 3 150081 Refer Endorsement Type Master
23 Boo_Policy_having_Co- Boolean 1 150095 If Policy is with Co-Insurance, enter '1'
Insurance otherwise enter '0'
24 Num_Your_Co_Insurance_Share Numeric 6 150096 If Co-Insurance is there, mention your
share in percentage (nnn.nn). If no
Co-Insurance, mention 100.
25 Txt_Other_Co-Insurance_Share Text 50 150108 Provide name of Co-Insurer and their
share in free text
HEALTH L2 - MEMBER FORMAT
DAT
A FIELD HEADING FIELD
FIEL
D DATA Remarks
FIEL
D TYPE SIZE DICTIONARY
REFERENCE
1 Txt_TPA_Code Text 5 150001 Please enter TPA Registration
number. Please refer "TPA Master"
attached
2 Txt_Insurer_Code Text 3 150002 Please enter Insurer Registration
number. Please refer "Insurer
Master" attached
3 Txt_U_W_Office_Code Text 20 150003 Branch/ Divisional Office Code or
Name as available. If Branch/ Division
not applicable, enter'0'
4 Txt_Policy_Number Text 50 150004 Self explanatory
5 Txt_Unq_Product_Code Text 20 150101 Give File & Use Product Code issued
by IRDA
6 Date_Policy_Start Date 10 150008 Date of commencement of policy
43
dd/mm/yyyy
7 Date_Policy_End Date 10 150009 Date of expiry of policy dd/mm/yyyy
8 Txt_Endorsement_Number Text 50 150064 Self explanatory
9 Txt_Member_Reference_Key Text 50 150005 TPAs & Insurers should ensure that
the Member Reference Key (MRK) is
a unique number denoting each
individual member.
10 Date_of_Birth Date 10 150006 Date of birth of the insured member
dd/mm/yyyy
11 Num_Age_of_Insured Numeric 3 150007 Completed years at commencement
of policy
12 Boo_Pre-existing_Diseases_ Boolean 1 150012 If Pre-Existing Diseases are covered,
Covered enter '1', otherwise enter '0'
13 Boo_Waiver_of_1st_Year_ Boolean 1 150013 If this exclusion is waived, enter '1',
Exclusion otherwise enter '0'
14 Boo_Maternity_Cover Boolean 1 150014 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
15 Boo_Baby_Cover_as_Part_of_ Boolean 1 150015 If this cover is given, enter '1',
Maternity otherwise enter '0'
16 Boo_Floater_Applicable Boolean 1 150016 If floater is applicable enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
17 Num_Corporate_Floater_Sum_ Numeric 16 150017 Buffer amount - (Amount that floats
Insured over entire policy) Applicable only for
Corporate Floater Policies
18 Num_Group_Size Numeric 8 150018 Number of members in the group
19 Txt_Gender Text 1 150019 1-Male, 2- Female, 3- Others
20 Num_Sum_Insured Numeric 16 150020 Individual Hospitalisation Sum
Insured. Specific Sum Insured for the
Member excluding any Floater or
Bonus Sum Insured.
21 Txt_Relationship_of_Insured Text 2 150021 Refer Relationship Master
22 Txt_Occupation Text 3 150022 Refer Occupation Master
Data Format-Non life Insurer
All data submitted must be in ASCII format.
HEALTH DATA 
DICTIONERY
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD FIELD DATA REMARKS
FIELD TYPE SIZE DICTIONARY
REFERENCE
1 Txt_TPA_Code Text 5 150001 Please enter TPA Registration
number. Please refer "TPA Master"
attached
2 Txt_Insurer_Code Text 3 150002 Please enter Insurer Registration
number. Please refer "Insurer
Master" attached
3 Txt_U_W_Office_Code Text 20 150003 Branch/ Divisional Office Code or
Name as available. If Branch/ Division
not applicable, enter '0'
4 Txt_Policy_Number Text 50 150004 Self explanatory
5 Txt_Member_Reference_ Text 50 150005 TPAs & Insurers should ensure that
Key the Member Reference Key (MRK) is
a unique number denoting each
individual member.
44
6 Date_of_Birth Date 10 150006 Date of birth of the insured member
as dd/mm/yyyy
7 Num_Age_of_Insured Numeric 3 150007 Completed years at commencement
of policy
8 Date_Policy_Start Date 10 150008 Date of commencement of policy as
dd/mm/yyyy
9 Date_Policy_End Date 10 150009 Date of expiry of policy as dd/mm/yyyy
10 Txt_Product_Type Text 3 150010 Refer Product Type Master
11 Txt_Type_of_Policy Text 3 150011 Refer Policy Type Master
DATA FIELD HEADING FIELD FIELD DATA REMARKS
FIELD TYPE SIZE DICTIONARY
REFERENCE
12 Boo_Pre-existing_Diseases Boolean 1 150012 If Pre-Existing Diseases are covered,
_Covered enter '1', other wise enter '0'
13 Boo_Waiver_of_1st_Year_ Boolean 1 150013 If this exclusion is waived, enter '1',
Exclusion otherwise enter '0'
14 Boo_Maternity_Cover Boolean 1 150014 If this cover is given, enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
15 Boo_Baby_cover_as_part_of Boolean 1 150015 If this cover is given, enter '1',
_ Maternity otherwise enter '0'
16 Boo_Floater_applicable Boolean 1 150016 If floater is applicable enter '1',
otherwise enter '0'
17 Num_Corporate_Floater_ Numeric 16 150017 Buffer amount - (Amount that floats
Sum_ Insured over entire policy) Applicable only for
Corporate Floater Policies
18 Num_Group_Size Numeric 8 150018 Number of members in the group
19 Txt_Gender Text 1 150019 1-Male, 2- Female, 3- Others
20 Num_Sum_Insured Numeric 16 150020 Individual Hospitalisation Sum
Insured. Specific Sum Insured for the
Member excluding any Floater or
Bonus Sum Insured.
21 Txt_Relationship_of_Insured Text 20 150021 Refer Relationship Master
22 Txt_Occupation Text 20 150022 Refer Occupation Master
23 Num_Policy_Premium Numeric 16 150023 Premium on which Service Tax is
calculated. For 'Universal Health Type
policies, premium will be 'Net Final
Premium' inclusive of all subsidies.
24 Num_Individual_Premium Numeric 16 150024 Individual Premium on which Service
Tax is calculated. (If available)
25 Txt_Claim_Number Text 20 150025 Unique number generated by TPA
27 Txt_Diagnosis_Code_ Text 20 150027 ICD-10 Code applicable for disease -
Level _I Primary level.
28 Txt_Procedure_Code_ Text 50 150065 ICD 10 PCS Codes - Primary level
Level_I
29 Txt_Name_of_the_Hospital Text 50 150029 Full Name of Hospital
30 Txt_Registration_Number_of Text 20 150030 Registration Number allotted by
_ Hospital appropriate authority, if available
31 Txt_PAN_of_Hospital Text 20 150031 Income Tax Permanent Account
Number of hospital, if available
32 Txt_Pin_Code_of_Hospital Text 10 150032 6 digit Postal Pin Code. Refer Pin
code Master
33 Date_of_Admission Date 10 150033 Self explanatory as dd/mm/yyyy
34 Date_of_Discharge Date 10 150034 Self explanatory as dd/mm/yyyy