Ref: IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/150/07/2016

Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business

Dated 29 th July 2016

Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 3rd Floor, Parishrama Bhavan, Basheerbagh, HYDERABAD 500 004 Ref: IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/150/07/2016 29 th July, 2016

To 
The Chairman-Cum- Managing Directors/Chief Executive officers of 
Life Insurance Companies, General Insurance Companies & Health Insurance 
Companies 
Madam/Sir, 
Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business 
The Health Insurance Regulations, 2013 are now replaced by IRDAI (Health 
Insurance) Regulations, 2016 which were notified on 18 th July, 2016. In terms of 
various provisions of the said Regulations, the Authority hereby issues these 
Guidelines on product filing procedures for products relating to Health Insurance 
Business for compliance by all Insurers and TPAs, as may be applicable. 

Yours faithfully, (Yegnapriya Bharath) Joint Director - Health

INDEX

Sl No

29-30

| | Item Page No |
| --- | --- |
| 1. Preliminary: Introduction; Objective; Applicability etc 4-6 | |
| 2. General Provisions 7-15 | |
| 3. File and Use Procedure 16-22 | |
| 4. Use and File Procedure 23-26 | |
| 5. Additional guidelines on Group Insurance 27-28 | |
| 6. Guidelines on Withdrawal of Health Insurance | Products |
| 7. Guidelines on Wellness Features/Benefits 31-32 | |
| 8. Schedule – 1 - Definitions 33 | |
| 9. Schedule – 2 - Customer Information Sheet 34-37 | |
| 10. Forms and Formats for Application and related | documents for File and Use Procedure and Use and File procedure (Annexures 1 to 7) |
| 11. Furnishing of Information (Annexures 8 to 10) 108-110 | |

38-107

CHAPTER I: PRELIMINARY

1. Introduction: The File and Use Guidelines and other procedure for product clearance in respect of health insurance business have evolved over time and those currently in vogue were enunciated in the Health Insurance Regulations 2013 as well as in the Circular on Standardization Guidelines for Health Insurance bearing Ref IRDA/HLT/CIR/036/02/2013 dated 20 th February, 2013 and amendments thereof. The Health Insurance Regulations, 2013 are now replaced by IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016 (hereafter referred as HIR, 2016) which were notified on 18 th July, 2016. In terms of various provisions of the said Regulations, the Authority has to specify certain Guidelines for compliance by all Insurers and TPAs, as may be applicable. The objective of this circular is to specify the Product Filing Guidelines which consist of File and Use and Use and File Procedure, Guidelines on Withdrawal of Products, Group Insurance and wellness features /benefits and also set out other related regulatory requirements that every Insurer shall comply with. 2. Applicability: Unless otherwise specified in the provisions of this Circular, this circular is applicable to all Life, General and Health insurers carrying on health insurance business in India, registered in accordance with Section 3 of the Insurance Act 1938, (herein after referred as Insurers). 3. Legal and other provisions: 3.1 This circular is issued under the provisions of Section 34 (1) of Insurance Act, 1938 and under the powers vested in Regulation 2 (i) (o) of IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016. 3.2 The periodicity of the data or information to be furnished to the Authority, if any, shall be as mentioned under the respective Chapters in this circular. 3.3 Norms to be followed by all Insurers while filing Health Insurance products under File and Use application are prescribed in Chapter III of this circular. 3.4 Norms to be followed by General Insurers and Health Insurers while launching Group Insurance Products under Use and File Procedure are prescribed in Chapter IV of this Circular. (This is not applicable to Life Insurers.) 3.5 Certain additional Guidelines on Group Insurance Policies are specified in Chapter V of this Circular.

3.6 Norms to be followed while withdrawing products are specified in Chapter VI 
of this Circular. These are not applicable to Life Insurers. 
3.7 Guidelines to be adhered to by all Insurers while offering wellness features as 
part of Health Insurance Policies are specified in Chapter VII of this Circular. 
3.8 Formats relating to File and Use, Use and File, Withdrawals etc. are attached as 
Annexure 1 – 7 of this Circular. 
3.9 Returns to be filed by all Insurers specific to Government Schemes, Group 
Insurance and Pilot Products are prescribed under Annexure – 8 to 10 of this 
Circular. 
4. Effective Date: 
The provisions of this circular shall be applicable with immediate effect or as 
specified in the respective provisions hereunder. The norms specified in these 
guidelines shall be applicable to all Individual products filed with the Authority under 
File and Use Procedure subsequent to the notification of these guidelines and all 
products launched under Use and File procedure in respect of Group Insurance 
Policies, including Government Schemes. 
5. Abatement of all previous circulars and guidelines: 
This circular is to be read in conjunction with the relevant provisions of the Health 
Insurance Regulations, 2016 and supercede the previous Circulars and Guidelines 
relating to File and Use procedure and other applicable guidelines for clearance of 
products in respect of Health Insurance Business (as defined in the Act) offered by 
Life Insurers, General insurers and Health insurers. 
6. Definitions: 
a) The words or expressions used herein and defined in the Insurance Act, 1938 
and Amendments thereon, the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 and the Regulations notified thereunder shall have the 
same meaning as assigned to them in those Acts. 
b) For the purpose of these guidelines certain terms shall have the meaning 
assigned as per glossary in Schedule-I unless otherwise specified or the 
context otherwise requires. 
7. Filing Process: 
While insurers shall follow the procedure and documentation specified herein for 
‘File and Use’ and ‘Use and File’ and use the Application Formats specified in these 
Guidelines, they shall ensure that internal verification is independently carried out by 

their compliance Department and file the certifications prescribed under these Guidelines with IRDAI.

CHAPTER II: GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1. Board approved Underwriting Policy: 
a) Every Insurer must file its Board approved Underwriting Policy for Health 
Insurance Business giving details for Health, Personal Accident and Travel, 
as may be applicable. 
b) The Insurer shall ensure that the Underwriting Policy reflects its underwriting 
philosophy. 
c) The Insurer shall also ensure that product design, rating, terms and 
conditions of cover and underwriting are at all times consistent with the Board 
approved underwriting policy. 
d) Any changes in the underwriting policy shall be approved by the Board 
recording the reasons for the change and the same shall be submitted to 
IRDAI within 30 days from the date of such approval. 
e) It must be ensured that the impact of such changes on the existing products 
is taken care of. If such impact warrants a change in the existing products, the 
insurer may decide to withdraw or file such products duly modified. 
Explanation: In respect of General Insurers and Life Insurers, where the 
Underwriting Policy approved by the Board is in respect of all lines of 
business, it shall consider the above factors while detailing the underwriting 
policy for Health Insurance Business. 
2. Role of Product Management Committee (PMC) (Not applicable to Life 
Insurers): 
Please refer to IRDAI ‘Guidelines on Product Filing Procedures for General 
Insurance Products’ ref. no. IRDAI/NL/GDL/F&U/030/02/2016 dated 
18 th February, 2016. In terms of the same, every general insurer (other than 
stand-alone health insurers) shall have to set up the Product Management 
Committee (PMC) as stipulated and carry on the role prescribed. In respect of 
products falling under Health Insurance Business, the PMC shall also assume 
the additional role as stipulated hereunder. As far as stand-alone health insurers 
are concerned, they shall also set up a Product Management Committee (PMC) 
in accordance with the norms specified in the Circular dated 18 th February, 2016 
referred above. 
In addition to the functions specified in the above referred Circular dated 
18 th February, 2016, the PMC shall carry out the following functions in so far as 
Health Insurance Business is concerned: 
i. The Committee shall put in place a Product Management Policy (in line with 
the Underwriting Policy) for Health Insurance Business. The within referred 
policy shall, inter alia, include aspects of reviewing products to avoid 

duplication or having multiple number of similar products; annual plans at the 
beginning of each financial year for filing of new products and modification of 
existing products; launching of products cleared under the File and Use 
procedure/ Use and File procedure as stipulated in these Guidelines; 
designing and filing of pilot products, if any and any other matter relating to 
product design and performance. 
ii. PMC shall carry out a due diligence process and record its concurrence/sign 
off on various product related risks for all product filings under File and Use, 
including Pilot products, if any, before any application for an insurance 
product is sent to IRDAI for approval under the File and Use procedure. 
iii. As far as products under the Use and File category are concerned, subject to 
the norms specified under these Guidelines, these shall be approved by the 
PMC which shall ensure that the products comply with the various stipulations 
relating to products enunciated in the various applicable provisions of law, 
rules, regulations, guidelines and other applicable regulatory framework 
including the Use and File guidelines stipulated by IRDAI from time to time. 
iv. The Board of the insurer may, however, delegate the day-to-day 
responsibilities relating to product designing, responding to IRDAI’s queries 
etc to any of the Key Persons of the Company in accordance to the provisions 
of Annexure – 4 Guidelines for Corporate Governance for Insurers in India 
Ref No. IRDA/F&A/GDL/CG/100/05/2016 dated 18 th May, 2016. 
v. The Committee shall hold its meetings at least once in a Quarter. 
vi. The minutes of the meetings of the PMC shall be maintained for a minimum 
period of five years and the Authority reserves the right to call for the minutes 
of meetings of the PMC at any time. 
3. The Proposal Form: 
(I) The following are hereby prescribed in respect of the Proposal Form used 
for individual health insurance products offered by all Insurers: 
a) Insurers shall ensure that every Proposal Form used for any of their 
health insurance products is filed and approved under these 
guidelines. 
b) Every Insurer shall file the proposal form(s) by giving a Unique 
Reference Number to each. Insurers may use the same proposal form 
approved by the Authority under these guidelines for any number of 
products by duly mentioning the Unique Reference Number of the said 
Proposal Form in the relevant File and Use Form. It would not be 
necessary to file the form each time. 
Explanatory Note: The Unique Reference Number referred 
herein shall be allotted by the Insurer and it shall be Proposal 
Form specific Unique Reference Number. 
c) Where any changes are required to be effected to suit the product or 
underwriting requirements etc., Insurer shall file such specific Proposal 

Form either while filing such product or separately and the same shall 
be given another Unique Reference Number. 
d) Insurers shall maintain a record of the Unique Reference Number 
allotted to each proposal form and the products for which the said 
proposal form is used. 
e) Every proposal form used along with the unique reference number and 
the name of the product for which the form is used shall be disclosed in 
the respective websites of the Insurers. 
f) There shall be a provision to capture the declarations or confirmation 
by Insurance Agent or the Intermediary explaining the product 
suitability to the prospect as well as the prospect’s or policyholder’s 
declaration or confirmation with regard to the understanding of the 
features. Where the proposer is illiterate or signs in a language 
different from that of the language of the proposal form, there shall be 
a provision which states that the details are explained to the proposer 
along with the signature of such person who has explained and the 
thumb impression / signature of the proposer. 
g) Where the policies are procured in electronic form, there shall be a 
procedure to elicit and capture the information required to underwrite 
the policy. The information captured under the electronic form shall be 
made available to the customer or the prospect as per extant 
Regulations or Circulars or Guidelines issued by the Authority, as 
applicable, in this regard. 
h) No Insurer shall, as part of the proposal form, call for or capture any 
personal information relating to the policyholder that is not relevant for 
considering the proposal for granting insurance sought or servicing of 
claim under such policy. 
i) No Insurer shall share any data pertaining to the policyholders 
collected as part of the proposal form with any third party except to any 
Government or statutory authority or as may be directed by the 
Authority or as per any regulatory framework put in place by the 
Authority. 
j) The standard declarations in the proposal form shall be: 
1. I hereby declare, on my behalf and on behalf of all persons 
proposed to be insured, that the above statements, answers 
and/or particulars given by me are true and complete in all 
respects to the best of my knowledge and that I am authorised 
to propose on behalf of these other persons. 

2. I understand that the information provided by me will form the basis of the insurance policy, is subject to the Board approved underwriting policy of the insurer and that the policy will come into force only after full payment of the premium chargeable. 3. I further declare that I will notify in writing any change occurring in the occupation or general health of the life to be insured/proposer after the proposal has been submitted but before communication of the risk acceptance by the company. 4. I declare that I consent to the company seeking medical information from any doctor or hospital who/which at any time has attended on the person to be insured/proposer or from any past or present employer concerning anything which affects the physical or mental health of the person to be insured/proposer and seeking information from any insurer to whom an application for insurance on the person to be insured /proposer has been made for the purpose of underwriting the proposal and/or claim settlement. 5. I authorize the company to share information pertaining to my proposal including the medical records of the insured/proposer for the sole purpose of underwriting the proposal and/or claims settlement and with any Governmental and/or Regulatory authority.” (II) Norms for Proposal Forms for Group Health Insurance Products offered by General and Health Insurers: i. Every proposal form used for Group Health Insurance Products shall carry a Unique Reference Number allotted by the Insurers. ii. The Unique Reference Number allotted shall be mentioned in the said proposal forms. iii. Insurers shall comply with Clause (3) (I) (d), Clause (3) (I) (e), Clause (3) (I) (i) and Clause (2) (I) (j) referred above. Insurers shall put in place procedures to collect the information relating to the Group from the Group Organiser or the Master Policyholder in the concerned proposal form/form for members as may be the case. (III) The norms specified under this chapter shall be prospectively applicable after the date of notification of this circular to all the Individual Products filed under File and Use norms and Group Insurance Products launched under Use and File.

(IV) Notwithstanding what is stated in these Guidelines, every proposal 
form shall comply with all other applicable provisions of Rules and/or 
Regulations. 
4. Designing of products: 
All Insurers shall put in place procedures to comply with the following norms 
while designing products. 
i. Every product shall comply with the provisions of Insurance Act, 1938, IRDAI 
(Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016 and all other applicable regulations and 
guidelines notified by the Authority. The terms and conditions of the contract 
shall also be in compliance with other applicable laws, if any. 
ii. The design shall be based on sound and prudent principles. 
iii. The endeavour shall be that the product meets the broad insurance needs 
of the targeted market segment, the pricing is fair to the customers and the 
product is viable and self-sustainable for the Insurer. 
iv. Pricing shall be based on appropriate and reliable data. The reasonableness 
of the pricing arrived at shall be presented to the PMC by the Appointed 
Actuary with regard to the financial sustainability and viability of the product 
as to the rates, loadings, guarantees and discounts, and the accuracy of the 
assumptions underlying the pricing model adopted. 
v. While designing the product, following shall be documented and submitted to 
the PMC: 
a. complete pricing details including the methodology adopted to arrive 
at the premium, together with the data sources utilized; 
b. assumptions made shall include the expected claim frequency and 
claim severities across age bands, expected expenses, lapse rates 
etc; 
c. specific loadings, if any, allowed; 
d. the profit margin at various model points or the expected loss ratios 
and the expected combined ratios at various model points across the 
entire portfolio; 
e. the underwriting capacity required for the product and the actual 
capacity available with the insurer; 
f. the retention capacity to manage the business 
g. internal capacity building measures, if any, required to offer the 
proposed product 
(i) and any other relevant metric for the product proposed. 
vi. Applications for revision of premium rates shall also be submitted to PMC 
before filing with the Authority for approval under the Product Filing 
Guidelines and inter alia, shall encompass 
a. the justification for the revision in price; 

b. the claims experience of the immediate three preceding years 
compared to the expected experience duly explaining the variations, 
and the experience of any similar product. 
c. the expected claims experience, the underlying assumptions of the 
proposed pricing along with an analysis of how the proposed pricing 
would address the adversities experienced sustainably. 
vii. Insurers may endeavour to recognise, for the purpose of rating, early entry 
into health insurance policies and also recognise early entry at the time of 
migration and porting. 
viii. The policy wordings must be simple using plain language that is easily 
understandable to the targeted market segment. All the sections of the policy 
must be placed logically and sequentially. There shall be consistency in the 
presentation of the terms and conditions in terms of language and facts, 
across all the sections of the policy contract. 
ix. Insurers shall endeavour to use the same terminology across all their 
products in the description of the terms and conditions or the benefits. In 
order that a policy contract is policyholder friendly and easily understandable, 
Insurers shall endeavour to avoid repetition of the terms and conditions at 
various sections, and shall provide cross reference wherever necessary. 
Insurers shall endeavour to classify various terms and conditions of the policy 
contract into various Sections and shall ensure that all the clauses related to 
that specific section are exclusively mentioned in that relevant section only. 
x. Standard definitions and nomenclatures wherever applicable shall be 
mentioned as prescribed by IRDAI vide circular 
ref: IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/146/07/2016 dated 29 th July 2016 as amended from 
time to time. 
xi. The font size of the policy wordings should at least be equivalent to size 7 of 
Times New Roman. 

xii. Norms on Nomenclature of Products: a. The name given to a product shall be one that is appropriate for the coverage being offered. b. No Insurer shall name a product with the same name that is already marketed by any other Insurer. If at any point of time it is observed that same name is used by more than one insurer, the Authority reserves the right to direct the Insurer/s to change the name of the subsequent product/s filed or launched as the case may be. c. Insurers shall use the same name as filed with the Authority whether it is under the File and Use or Use and File procedure.. d. Insurers may, however, forward an application for changing the name of a product, if they so desire. On examining such request/s the Authority may consider the same, in which case, such revised name shall be used prospectively only.

e. The names of the products must not reflect terms or phrases that 
exaggerate the underlying benefits or coverage of any health 
insurance policy or imply guarantees or guaranteed claim payments. 
Names of Health Care providers shall not be reflected as part of the 
product name. 
xiii. Norms on Product Disclosures: 
a. All products that are offered shall be disclosed in the websites of the 
respective insurers along with the approved name, UIN, premium 
rates charged (exclusive of taxes) for all ages, along with the date of 
launching of the product. Insurers shall separately mention the extant 
taxes applicable. 
b. Every Insurer shall disclose the terms and conditions of the policies 
and their prospectus as filed with the Authority in their website. 
xiv. Norms for Prevention of Frauds: 
a. In addition to complying with the extant regulatory framework put in 
place by the Authority for prevention of frauds, all Insurers, while 
designing products shall also examine, identify and put in place 
necessary and relevant systems to prevent and detect potential frauds. 
5. The Prospectus: 
In addition to the disclosure requirements stipulated in various provisions 
of the Health Insurance regulations 2016, IRDA (Insurance Advertisement 
and Disclosure) Regulations, 2000, Rules and Guidelines / Circulars as 
amended from time to time, the Prospectus shall mandatorily contain all 
information regarding: 
i. Disclosures about the terms and conditions of policy renewal including 
the possibility of modification of the policy in future 
ii. Coverage and premium applicable as per the age progression 
iii. Whether renewal premium would be guaranteed or subject to revision; 
iv. Disclosure of the maximum age up to when the renewal would be 
available, if product is offered to specified age groups. 
v. Options available to migrate to other policies in case of closure or 
withdrawal of products. 
vi. Any changes in the scope of the cover after certain duration of the 
policy or after a certain age- such as including but not limited to 
coverage for pre-existing diseases; 
vii. Factors, on the basis of which premium , if at all, could be loaded (or 
discounts offered, if any, could be withdrawn) by the insurer and also 
the extent to which it could be done; 
viii. Procedure and terms and conditions, if any, for enhancing the Sum 
Insured or scope of cover 
ix. Exclusions and Conditions including Cancellation Condition/s. 

6. Customer Information Sheet: 
Every product shall be accompanied by a Customer Information Sheet as per 
the format prescribed in Schedule – II of these Guidelines. 
7. Responsibility for compliance: 
i) For every product filed with the Authority, the Insurer shall furnish a detailed 
self-check list cum certification in the prescribed format ( FORM – IRDAI-HLT 
CLC) (Annexure – 7) duly certified by the Chief Compliance Officer who shall 
ensure that the terms and conditions of the product are compliant with the 
provisions of the Regulations and Guidelines issued by IRDAI from time to 
time. 
ii) The onus of ensuring correctness of the details in various documents (policy, 
prospectus, proposal form etc) vis-à-vis another lies with the Insurer. 
8. IRDAI’s right to examine or issue directions: 
If, at any time, it appears to IRDAI that a product being sold by an insurer is not 
appropriate for any reason or does not carry rates, terms and conditions that are 
fair between the parties or the documents used with the product are in any way 
questionable, notwithstanding the fact that IRDAI may have had no subsisting 
queries in respect of that product when it was originally filed, it may express its 
concerns and call upon the insurer to answer the concerns of IRDAI with regard 
to that product, within the time frame specified by IRDAI. If the insurer is not able 
to satisfy IRDAI in the matter, IRDAI may require the insurer to suspend the sale 
of that product until it is modified in a manner acceptable to IRDAI or withdraw 
the product from the market. Where a product is withdrawn from the market 
under this provision, the insurer shall not use the same brand name for any other 
product. 
9. Unique Identification Number: 
(i) Every product launched either under File and Use or under Use and File shall 
have a subsisting Product UIN issued by the Authority. The UIN of the product 
shall be disclosed in all the product documents like prospectus, policy wordings 
and CIS. UIN issued by the Authority shall not be altered or modified by the 
Insurer. At any given point of time, one product shall carry one UIN. (ii) Where 
any modification is effected such modified product shall carry the modified UIN 
issued by the Authority. 
10. Product Performance Review: 
The PMC shall assess the performance of every product at least after the expiry 
of three financial years from the date of launch. The review of the product 
performance shall, inter alia, cover; 
a. The viability of the product. 

b. The assumptions made at the time of launching the product vis-à-vis the actual experience in terms of business volume, Incurred Claims Ratio, Combined Loss Ratio and others.

CHAPTER III :: FILE AND USE PROCEDURE 
This procedure is applicable to new or modification of Individual Products, Riders or 
Add-ons of Health Insurance Business offered to Individuals. The procedure is also 
applicable to Pilot Health Insurance Products (both Individual and Group), Health 
plus Life Combi-Products (both Individual and Group), Non-Life Insurance Package 
and Health Package Products. The application under File and Use shall be made in 
the respective forms specified in these guidelines. In respect of the products filed 
under this category, the Authority may seek additional information. Insurers shall not 
commence selling the product until the Authority confirms in writing of having no 
subsisting queries on the product filed. 
A. New Health Products or Add-Ons or Riders (Applicable to Life, General 
and Health Insurers): 
An insurer who wishes to introduce a new Individual product or Rider or Add 
on or modify an existing Individual product or Rider or Add-on shall file an 
application for such product with IRDAI as per procedure set out herein: 
1. All applications filed under F&U shall be approved by the Product 
Management Committee of the General or Health Insurer prior to the filing 
with the Authority. 
2. Insurers shall use only the specified Form - IRDAI – FNU-HIP (Annexure – 1) 
for filing of products as well as riders or add-ons. 
3. Insurers shall file the necessary certificates as prescribed in the File and Use 
application under these Guidelines without deviating from the prescribed 
formats. 
4. The forms/certificates should be completed in all respects. Where a question 
is not applicable for a product, the remark ‘Not applicable’ is to be put. No 
column is to be left blank. All the granular details of Waiting Periods, 
Exclusions, Deductibles, Co-Pay, Sub-limits etc shall be disclosed clearly in 
the F&U Application without omission. 
Note: It is clarified that mere mentioning of the applicability of the above 
referred conditions in the product without specifying the granular details of 
minimum and maximum amounts etc. may render the application not 
eligible to be considered. 
5. If an insurer wishes to offer riders or add-ons along with a basic product, it 
must furnish the information in respect of the respective riders or add-ons 
separately using the File and Use Application specified (Form - IRDAI – FNU 
HIP) in this circular. It shall also file the financial projections along with 

sensitivity analysis for each rider or add-on benefit. It is further clarified that it 
is not necessary to file the rider details more than once when the same rider 
or add-on is proposed to be offered with any new base product. However, it 
would be necessary to furnish the section pertaining to financial projections 
and sensitivity analysis. 
6. All requisite items in the Forms must be furnished with the relevant details. 
7. Forms along with the necessary enclosures-(i). Specimen Policy wordings 
along with policy schedule (ii). Specimen Proposal form (as stipulated in 
these Guidelines) (iii). Specimen Prospectus or Sales Literature and (iv). 
Technical Notes (applicable for General Insurers and Health Insurers), etc 
shall be furnished in one go. 
8. Insurers shall not alter the contents of the products without following due 
process of modification specified under these Guidelines. 
9. If an Insurer wishes to modify an existing approved product, the Company is 
required to comply with ‘File & Use procedure afresh as a modification, by 
duly filing the Application as specified under Clause (C) of this chapter. 
10.If an insurer does not launch the product or modified product within a period 
of six months from the date of approval, the Insurer will be required to seek 
the approval of the Authority for launching the product or the modification, as 
the case may be. While seeking the approval, Insurers shall specify (a) the 
reasons for not launching (b) if there are any changes that may have an 
impact on the assumptions made at the time of the filing the product or the 
modification (c) if there is any other impact such as owing to market dynamics 
etc 
11.If an insurer does not launch the product or the modified product within a 
period of twelve months from the date of approval, Insurer will be required to 
comply with File & Use procedure afresh. 
12.The Appointed Actuary shall initial / sign on all pages of the File and Use 
application. All the correspondence on products with the Authority shall be 
made only either by the Appointed Actuary or any of the Key Persons of the 
Company in accordance with the provisions of Annexure – 4 Guidelines for 
Corporate Governance for Insurers in India Ref No. 
IRDA/F&A/GDL/CG/100/05/2016 dated 18 th May, 2016. 
13.Insurer shall furnish the revised documents specifically highlighting the 
changes, if any, made consequent to the queries raised by the Authority. 
Each page of the document shall carry the name of the document, date of 
filing, change or modification effected indicating the date of such change and 
page number and shall be in legible font size not below 7 Times New Roman. 
Where any other changes or modifications are carried out (other than those 
on which clarifications are sought) the same shall be duly brought to the 
notice of the Authority. 

Provided that, if such changes or modifications are materially significant, the 
Authority reserves the right to direct the Insurer to file the ‘File and Use’ Application 
afresh. 
14.The insurer shall also furnish the details of the software, if any used, in the 
matter of designing and filing the products for the information of the Authority.. 
15.Wherever relevant and required, Life Insurers shall also file additional 
information as prescribed by the Authority from time to time. 
16.The Application Form for File and Use has the following nine sections: 
I. General Information 
II. General Terms and Conditions 
III. Benefit Structure 
IV. Underwriting 
V. Other Terms 
VI. Distribution Channels 
VII. Reinsurance arrangements 
VIII. Pricing 
IX. Enclosure to F&U Application 
Where an existing product is modified, Insurers shall file the complete 
information of the relevant section of the File and Use Application subject to 
norms specified under Clause – C of these Guidelines. 

B. Pilot Products (applicable for General and Health Insurers only): 1. An Insurer who wishes to introduce a Pilot Product (both Individual and Group) as provided for in the IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016 shall file an application for such product with the Authority as per the norms specified in Clause A (Chapter – III) above. 2. It is reiterated that every Pilot Health Product shall be approved by the Product Management Committee before it is filed with the Authority. 3. In addition to the documents specified under Clause A, Insurer shall also provide a detailed document providing justification for considering the product as a ‘Pilot Product’ setting out the advantages and disadvantages associated with introduction of the Product along with market research, if any, on assessment of the need for the targeted market segment. 4. Every Pilot Product shall be self-sustainable and the premium rates shall be representative of the target population’s age and morbidity. 5. The Insurer shall also specify the period (in years) for which Insurer intends to offer such Pilot Product, subject to a maximum of 5 years from the date of launch of the product. The Prospectus, Policy

Document, and sales literature of every Pilot Product shall disclose this 
information. 
6. The Product Management Committee shall, before the expiry of the 
period mentioned in sub-clause (5) above, record its decision as to 
whether such Pilot Product is to be withdrawn or be continued as a 
regular product. The Authority shall be notified of such decision within 
30 days before the expiry of such period along with the reasons 
recorded by the PMC. Where the pilot product is withdrawn, the 
Guidelines specified for withdrawal of Products shall become 
applicable. 
7. Insurer shall submit the product performance details in respect of every 
‘Pilot Product’ cleared by the Authority, in the Form IRDAI-HIPP 
(Annexure – 10) every year within 60 days of the close of the Financial 
Year. 
8. Insurers shall endeavour that the pilot product once launched is not 
modified. Where it is considered essential to modify the pilot product, 
the maximum shelf life of five years stipulated for a pilot product shall 
be reckoned from the date of launch of the initial pilot product. 
9. Every modification proposed in respect of any pilot product shall be 
approved by the PMC and filed with the Authority as per applicable 
provisions of these guidelines for clearance by the Authority. 
10.There shall be an informed choice to the existing policyholders of the 
pilot product before their policy is renewed on modified terms or price, 
if any. 

C. Modification in terms and conditions of products under File and Use (Applicable to Life, General and Health Insurers): 1. No Insurer shall ordinarily modify or revise a product within one year from the date of its clearance by the Authority. 2. Any revision or modification of any approved health insurance product filed under File & Use Procedure shall also require the prior clearance of the Authority as per the guidelines issued from time to time. 3. An insurer, wishing to make changes to an existing product/rider or Add on, shall submit an application to the Authority on modular basis furnishing information of the relevant section of the File and Use application setting out the details of the changes or modifications in the terms and conditions and/or price. Any such modification shall have prior approval of the PMC as may be applicable. The PMC shall evaluate the modification to examine whether it has any impact on pricing and record the same. Accordingly, the product may be filed with the Authority for modification.

4. Insurer shall provide reasons/justification for the proposed changes. 
5. Insurers shall file the necessary certificates as prescribed without 
deviating from the prescribed formats along with revised documents. 
6. However, the Authority reserves the right to call for complete F&U 
Application, if necessary, for examination of any such modification. 
7. In case any existing product offered by a General or Health Insurer is 
modified and launched, the earlier version of the product shall 
automatically cease to exist for new business and the modified version of 
the product shall be launched subject to complying with Clauses (3), (5), 
(6) and (7) of Chapter – VI of norms on withdrawal of the products 
specified under these Guidelines. 
Implementation of the modified rates, terms and conditions shall be allowed 
only at the time of renewal of the Policy for the products offered by the 
general insurers and health insurers. For policies offered by life insurers, the 
implementation of the modified version of the Product shall be prospectively 
allowed only for new business and the existing policies will continue with the 
prior version. However, Life Insurers may modify the premium rates as per 
the provisions of HIR 2016 subject to clearance by the Authority. 

D. Health plus Life Combi-Products (Applicable to Life, General and Health Insurers) Where a Life Insurer and a General or Health Insurer tie-up and offer any product under the class ‘Health plus Life Combi-Products’ as defined in Health Insurance Regulations 2016, they shall file an application as per procedure prescribed herein: 1. There shall be an MOU in place between the Insurers as prescribed in the extant Regulations which shall be filed with the Authority independent of product filing. Both the Insurers shall enter into an agreement prescribed in the said Regulations covering all the aspects specified in the Regulations including but not limited to nomination of Lead Insurer, modus operandi of marketing, policy servicing, sharing of common expenses, turnaround time (TAT) for policy servicing and Options available to Policyholders on discontinuance of either portion of risk coverage etc. 2. In case any Health plus Life Combi-product requires services not specified in the existing MoU, the Insurers may supplement it as per additional requirements and file the same with the Authority along with Form prescribed under these guidelines.

3. Health plus Life combi products shall be approved by the PMC of 
respective General or Health Insurers. Where the Health Plus Life Combi 
product offers any discount, there shall be a complete analysis approved 
by PMC of the Health Insurer or General Insurer or by the Appointed 
Actuary of the Life Insurer as may be the case. 
4. Insurers shall ensure that the products combined do not have overlapping 
benefits. No Health Insurance product offered by a Life Insurer shall be 
combined with another health insurance policy offered by a General or a 
Health Insurer. 
5. The Products offered under Combi products shall be individually cleared 
as per File & Use/Product Filing Guidelines applicable for Life and Health 
Products respectively. 
6. Insurers shall use the specified form IRDAI – FNU-HPLCombi (Annexure 
3) for filing the Combi-Product which shall be a combination of such 
already approved products. 
7. Filing of the Combi-Product by the Lead Insurer shall be treated as 
compliance. However, the Lead Insurer shall have the obligation of 
sharing the Authority’s directives to the other Insurer and shall be held 
responsible for non-communication, if any. 
8. Where an existing MoU is terminated, it shall be notified ninety days in 
advance to the stakeholders subject to the approval of the Authority. 
9. Needless to say, where a Combi product is withdrawn the underlying 
health cover is subject to extant regulations or guidelines relating to 
migration and portability. 

E. Non-Life Package Products where Health is one of the components of coverage: General Insurers may design Non-life package products combining Non-Life Covers with Health Covers (including PA or Travel) subject to the following norms. a. Every Non-life package product shall be placed before the PMC for approval. The suitability of packaging the product, particularly from the perspective of meeting the reasonable expectations of the policyholders shall be analytically examined by PMC. b. In case a Non-Life Insurance package product has Health as one of its sections or covers, it shall be filed on modular basis in Form IRDAI – FnU – HIP (Annexure - 1) prescribed under these guidelines. c. Where an already approved Health Insurance product or section is proposed to be packaged in a Non-Life Insurance Package product,

the same shall be filed in Form IRDAI – FnU – NLHP (Annexure – 2). d. A Non-Life Package Product shall carry the UIN allotted to the Non -Life Product only.

F. HEALTH PACKAGE PRODUCTS: a. General Insurers and Health Insurers may design Health package products combining Health (including PA or Travel) with Non-Life covers/benefits where Health is a predominant cover. b. Where an Insurer proposes to offer Health Insurance package product as defined under Schedule – 1 of this circular, it shall be filed in Form IRDAI – FnU – HIP (Annexure - 1) prescribed under these guidelines in accordance with the norms specified under Clause (A) of Chapter - III. c. Where an Insurer wishes to create a Health Package policy by integrating products already noted or approved by the Authority without changing the policy wordings, terms, conditions and premium rates, such package product shall be placed before the PMC for approval and filed with the Authority in Form IRDAI - FnUNLHP (Annexure - 2) specified under these guidelines for the approval of the Authority. Where a section of an approved product is included in such a package cover, instead of the entire product, such section can be packaged, provided it has a premium rate independent of the entire product premium. d. These norms are applicable only for packaging two or more products of the same General Insurer or Health Insurer. e. Insurers shall ensure that the package product offered under these guidelines have no overlapping benefits. The PMC shall ensure that the health package product does not contain elements of the same type of insurance coverage in more than one section. f. Whenever any of the underlying products that are part of the Health Package Products undergo any modification or revision as approved by the Authority, such modifications shall be reflected in the package product as well and due procedure followed. g. Every Health package product shall carry a UIN allotted by the Authority.

CHAPTER IV :: USE AND FILE PROCEDURE (Applicable to only General Insurers and Health Insurers) Group products (other than pilot products) offered by General Insurers and Health Insurers, including products offered for schemes sponsored by the State and Central Governments may be launched without prior approval of the Authority, subject to the following stipulations:

I. Group products other than Government Schemes: i. The product shall be approved by the Product Management Committee. ii. Insurers shall obtain UIN for every insurance product referred under this section from IRDAI by duly informing the name of the insurance product proposed to be launched under Use and File. The product (Other than Government Sponsored Schemes) shall be filed with the Authority within seven days from the date of approval by PMC in the Form IRDAI-UnF-HLTGRP (Annexure – 4) specified in these Guidelines. iii. For every Group Health Insurance Scheme filed under these guidelines, the Insurer shall furnish Annual Return in Format prescribed (IRDAI-GHISAR) (Annexure 9) within 60 days from the close of the Financial Year. II. Insurance Schemes sponsored by Governments: Insurance products offered by insurers for schemes sponsored by the State and Central Governments, shall adhere to the conditions of the scheme as laid down by the Government. Insurers are required to comply with the following.

1. Every insurance product proposed to be offered as a scheme sponsored by 
Governments shall be placed and approved by the PMC and UIN shall be 
obtained from the Authority. 
2. The Insurer shall furnish the details in Form – IRDAI-UNF-GOVTHLT within 
fifteen days of the date of award of tender. 
3. Insurers are allowed to participate in the tender process, provided the 
a. Proposed insurance scheme is sponsored by Central or any State 
Government; 
b. Insurer shall be responsible to comply with the provision of Section 
64VB. 

4. The pricing of such schemes shall be based on the previous experience of 
similar schemes offered by the insurer, if any. 
5. If an existing product of the insurer, which is approved by the Authority under 
File and Use Procedure or which is filed under Use and File Procedure as 
stipulated under these Guidelines, is in total conformity with the proposed 
insurance scheme including the pricing, the insurer shall inform the Authority 
of such award and submit all the relevant details in Form – IRDAI-UNF 
GOVTHLT (Annexure 5) within fifteen days from the date of such award. 
6. On review of information filed under Form – IRDAI-UNF-GOVTHLT, the 
Authority may call for such other information in such form as may be required 
7. Where the insurer is awarded the tender for different unit areas subsequently, 
the insurer shall submit this information to the Authority in Form – IRDAI 
UNF-GOVTHLT. Where there are any modifications or differences, if any, 
with regard to the pricing of the contract and features of the contract in 
respect of subsequent awards, the Insurer shall follow the procedure referred 
in these Guidelines. Such modifications shall duly consider and document: 
a. The method of computation of premium; 
b. Source of data, assumptions and loadings made; 
c. Expected loss ratios and expected combined ratios across the age 
groups for Health Insurance Products for a policy term offered; 
d. In addition to (c) above, expected profit margins along with the risk 
discount rates across different age-groups for health insurance 
products with policy term offered; 
e. The Appointed Actuary certificate on viability of the rates proposed; 
f. Features that have been changed from the previous filing; 
8. Insurer shall inform the Authority any penalties or termination imposed by the 
Government, within SEVEN days of receipt of intimation of any such action; 
9. If the premium is the only variant for the subsequent tender award across 
various other districts or other areas, the insurer shall follow the norms 
specified at Clause No. (7) above. 
10.The insurers shall submit Annual Return in respect of the schemes referred 
herein in Form IRDAI-GHIS (Annexure – 8) as specified therein. 
11.If claims experience (net incurred claims ratio) for the said portfolio turns out 
to be more than 90% for the consecutive four half years, the insurer is not 
allowed to participate in the tender for any Government sponsored scheme 
for a period of at least two following Financial Years; However, the insurer 
shall continue to provide services in the areas where the tender is awarded till 
the expiry of agreed period of tender. 
Provided that, where the Insurer could not participate in the tender for reasons 
referred at Clause (11) above, the insurer shall not participate in any Government 

sponsored tender process unless an explicit approval for such participation is sought 
by the insurer and approved by the Authority. 
12.Any information pertaining to Government Sponsored Scheme shall be 
submitted to the Authority as and when required. 

III. Other Stipulations for Group Products: 1) Every Insurer shall put in place effective operational procedures to service the Group Insurance Products filed under Use and File. The Insurer shall also ensure that the internal systems and controls are in place to manage the product related risks before launching any product under Use and File procedure. 2) No changes shall be effected in respect of any group insurance product filed under the Use and File.

3) Insurers shall ensure the dissemination of complete product information to 
the insurance intermediaries immediately after launch of the product. 
Necessary procedures shall be put in place to impart the requisite product 
training to all the insurance intermediaries that are marketing the products 
launched under the Use and File. 
4) Insurers shall maintain the records such as proposal form, internal notes, 
details of quotation given and details of acceptance, detailed premium 
worksheet along with the basis for working including previous claims 
details, Policy Schedule, list of named beneficiaries etc. wherever 
applicable with respect to every policy issued for a period of 5 years from 
the date of expiry of the Policy. 
5) All the pricing factors shall be duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and 
be placed before PMC for its review and approval. The reserving for these 
products shall be as per the relevant extant regulations. 
6) Insurers must justify the rates and terms including discounts given to any 
group, if called upon to do so, within the time frame specified by the 
Authority. 
7) The Authority reserves the right to require an insurer to state the process 
of quoting terms for a particular client and to technically justify the 
premium quoted for its covers. 
8) Insurer shall also maintain the Incurred Claims Ratio (ICR) of every policy 
issued to Groups. 

9) The Insurance Company providing quote for Group Health Insurance may seek the details of ICR of the Group with the existing Insurer. The General Insurance Council is encouraged to develop and put in place a suitable mechanism in this regard. 10)The PMC shall be responsible for monitoring the product management cycle of all ‘Use and File’ products. 11)Group Insurance Products which are filed with the Authority but are yet to be cleared under the erstwhile File and Use Procedure shall be returned to the respective Insurers. Insurers would be required to comply with the relevant Guidelines for these products also. 12)The Authority reserves the right to examine the products launched under Use and File category and may take such action as deemed fit or may issue such directions as considered necessary, which shall be binding on such Insurer. 13)Where any Insurer is found to be non-compliant with the extant Health Insurance Regulations or other relevant regulatory framework including the framework pertaining to the products allowed under Use and File category, the Authority reserves the right to withdraw the Use and File facility for such Insurer and thereafter, such Insurer shall file the products referred under this chapter – IV as per File and Use Procedure in Form IRDAI – FNU-HIP (Annexure – 1) prescribed under these Guidelines and obtain prior approval. 14)The Authority reserves the right to direct the Insurers to discontinue the marketing of the health insurance product launched under Use and File Guidelines. Group Health Insurance Products offered by Life Insurers are subject to the applicable File and Use Guidelines in force. Life Insurers shall file the Group Health Products as per the format Form IRDAI – FNU-HIP (Annexure – 1) prescribed under these Guidelines.

CHAPTER V :: ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES FOR GROUP INSURANCE 
(Not Applicable to Government Sponsored Schemes) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in Guidelines on Group Health Insurance 
Policies Vide Circular Ref. No: 015/IRDA/Life/Circular/GI Guidelines/2005 dated 
14/07/2005 issued by the Authority as amended from time to time, all Group 
Insurance Policies shall comply with the following norms: 
1) Subject to the minimum number prescribed in Regulation (7) of HIR, 2016 
every Group Health Insurance Product shall specify the minimum group size 
for offering Group Health Insurance Policy. 
2) No Group Insurance policy shall be issued to a group whose size is less than 
the minimum stipulated expecting that the group would reach that size in 
future over a period of time. 
3) The policy term of every group insurance policy shall be as stipulated in HIR, 
2016. Where the Group Insurance Policy is open for the entry of members at 
periodic intervals say every month or every quarter, though the duration of the 
Group Policy may be beyond the policy term stipulated in HIR, 2016, the 
insurance coverage for every member of the group insurance policy shall not 
exceed the maximum policy term stipulated in HIR, 2016. 
4) Subject to maintaining the minimum group size and the maximum policy term 
stipulated in HIR, 2016 Insurers may issue multiple group insurance policies 
in tranches to the Group Organizer for providing insurance coverage to the 
new members on an ongoing basis. 
5) The underwriting/rate review process of the group policies at the time of 
renewal should consider the member entry and exit patterns from the group in 
order to address the possibility of adverse selection, moral hazard or fraud. 
6) Subject to portability norms stipulated in HIR, 2016; persons, who join a group 
insurance scheme shall, on their leaving the group as per group rules, be 
provided an option to migrate to another policy at the premium as applicable 
for such individual insurance, with all benefits of portability. It should be 
facilitated both by the group organiser and the insurer concerned. 
7) A master policy is to be issued to the group, which should be available for 
guidance of the members covered. Subject to the extant Guidelines on Group 
Insurance all members should be issued a Certificate of Insurance giving the 
details of the benefits and the important conditions and exclusions. 
8) All discounts should be based on valid underwriting considerations, taking 
into account the loss experience of the group, the expenses including 
commission that may be incurred / payable. 
9) Insurers must justify the rates and terms offered to any group to the Authority, 
if called upon to do so. 
10)All insurers wishing to offer group insurance should have a Board approved 
group insurance underwriting policy which should be part of the underwriting 
policy filed with the Authority. The policy should spell out the manner in which 
its risk and costs are analyzed and factored into the premium cost. All risk 
factors per units of coverage such as individual, family, group floater, etc., 

should be separately analyzed and priced. Past experience and future 
exposures should also be critically analyzed for large groups. 
Explanatory Note: Large Group for the purpose of these Guidelines is a group 
extending coverage to over and above 500 members. 
11)Pricing is to be made based on sound actuarial principles, supporting data 
considering all the relevant aspects of pricing such as morbidity experience 
by gender, by age group, by occupation, by group size etc, expenses, 
terminations, profit margin etc. Discounts and Loadings offered shall be 
based on objective criteria with appropriate justifications. For innovative 
covers, Insurers shall base the pricing prudentially on the relevant morbidity 
experience which reflects the future expected experience from such 
innovative covers apart from considering other parameters. 
12)All group health insurance policies having named beneficiaries should have 
ID cards issued to the beneficiaries to enable them obtain cashless service, 
wherever applicable. 
13)Unnamed policies e.g. Personal Accident may also be issued provided the 
group has non-tamperable registers or records or procedures to identify the 
member insured / covered. The registers, records or the procedures shall be 
subject to inspection at any time. 
14)As part of the Terms and Conditions of the Group Insurance policy the Insurer 
shall put in place enabling provisions to let the beneficiary or the insured 
member directly raise grievances either with the insurer or with other 
Grievances redressal mechanism available. The granular details in this 
regard shall be part of the terms and conditions mentioned in the Certificate of 
Insurance. 
15)The group administrator’s role as facilitator in offering a group cover and 
facilitating insurance services including claims from a central point needs to 
be clearly spelt out between the group and insurer as part of the Terms and 
Conditions. 
16)The insurer and the concerned Insurance Agent or Insurance Intermediary, if 
any, will be held responsible for any malpractice in respect of the Group 
Policy that is detrimental to the beneficiary members or potential consumers 
or to the public at large and for violation of any regulation or guidelines of the 
Authority relating to the insurance transactions with groups. 

CHAPTER VI :: WITHDRAWAL OF PRODUCTS 
Where insurers wish to withdraw any Individual or Group product, they shall file an 
application as per procedure set out herein. 
1. The decision to withdraw any Health Insurance product shall be taken by the 
PMC in case of General Insurers and Health Insurers. The reason for 
withdrawal of the product shall be clearly documented and filed with IRDAI in 
the prescribed form. In case of Life Insurers, the withdrawal of a product is 
subject to the extant applicable norms. 
2. The Policy document shall clearly indicate the possibility of withdrawal of the 
products in future and suitable options that would be made available to the 
policyholder on withdrawal of the products. 
3. A withdrawn Individual Health Insurance product shall not be offered to new 
customers after the date of the withdrawal. 
a. Provided, no product that is withdrawn shall be renewed for the 
existing policyholders whose policies are due for renewal 90 days after 
the date of the withdrawal of the product. All policyholders of the 
withdrawn product that are due for renewal up to the expiry of ninety 
days from the date of withdrawal shall be given an option of renewing 
the existing product or migrating to the modified version of the product 
or to the new product, as may be the case, subject to portability norms 
in vogue. The existing policyholders shall be given an informed choice 
in this regard. 
b. Provided further, the option of allowing migration subject to portability 
conditions is applicable to the Health Insurance Policies issued by 
General Insurers and Health Insurers. 
c. Provided further, the option of allowing the renewal of the product 
withdrawn to the existing customers of the withdrawn Health Insurance 
Policy shall be a onetime option to be provided only in the immediate 
renewal due date that falls within 90 days from the date of the 
withdrawal of a product. 
4. Any Individual or Group Health Insurance Product offered with a term 
exceeding one year, shall be continued on the agreed terms for all the 
existing policyholders for the entire policy term. 
a. Provided Individual Health Insurance products offered for a term 
exceeding one year, on withdrawal, shall follow the norms specified in 
Clause (3) above. 
b. Provided further, subject to complying with Clause (16) of Schedule – I 
of HIR, 2016 a Group Health Insurance Product may be withdrawn 
prospectively. 

c. Provided further, the Product Management Committee shall put in 
place guidelines for withdrawal of any group health insurance product. 
The norms, inter alia, shall address the basis of the withdrawal, the 
notice period to be made available to the Group Organizer, options to 
be offered if any, to the Group Organizer and/or the insured members. 
5. All the distribution channels that are marketing the products shall be notified 
about the decision to withdraw a product from a specified date. All distribution 
channels shall be instructed not to use any publicity material of the product 
withdrawn from such date. 
6. Insurers shall put in place measures to underwrite new proposals that were 
procured prior to the effective date of withdrawal. 
7. Any premiums or deposit received towards the product that is withdrawn, but 
where no policy has been issued, shall be refunded to the policyholders. Such 
monies shall not be adjusted for issuance of any other policies except with 
specific consent of the policyholder. 
a. Provided the consent of the policyholder shall be recorded. 
8. Companies shall display the list of the products withdrawn along with the date 
of withdrawal in their websites. 
9. Insurers shall also put in place measures for immediate withdrawal of sales 
literature, prospectus and publicity material that is issued in respect of the 
product withdrawn. 
10.Insurers shall use the specified Form IRDAI-HPW (Annexure – 6) for notifying 
the Authority about the withdrawal of products as well as riders/add-ons within 
30 days from the date of withdrawal. 
11.Withdrawal of specific sections of the product is not permitted. Such 
withdrawals shall be filed as modifications. 

CHAPTER: VII :: GUIDELINES ON WELLNESS FEATURES/BENEFITS 
a. No Wellness feature/benefit shall be offered without it being filed or 
incorporated as part of the product in terms of the Product Filing Guidelines. 
b. No payments shall be made by any Insurer to any third party service provider 
towards wellness features/benefits. 
c. There shall be no discrimination in providing any of the wellness 
features/benefits offered to like categories under the terms and conditions of 
the policy contract. 
d. Every Insurer shall assess the pricing impact of wellness features offered, if 
any, and the same shall be disclosed upfront in the File and Use application 
prescribed in the Product Filing Guidelines, in case of individual products. In 
case of group products the same shall be specified in the Use and File 
procedure put in place by the Authority. 
e. Any Wellness feature shall be designed only with the objective of maintaining 
good health and improving it. 
f. Use of protein supplements and other such consumable health boosters shall 
not be considered to be part of a wellness feature. . 
g. In case of Family Floater Plans, Insurers should clearly define the manner in 
which accrual and redemption of benefits is considered in respect of all 
members covered. 
h. Insurer to clearly specify in the policy contract as to whether the accrued 
benefits can be carried forward or not when the policy is renewed with the 
Insurer and the period of validity of the accrued benefits under both the 
scenarios. 
i. The benefit accrued shall be at periodic intervals at rates/amounts declared 
upfront at the commencement of the policy and shall not be linked to any 
dynamic factor such as interest rate etc. The same shall be specified in the 
Policy Document. 
j. Insurer shall notify the benefits accrued to the credit of a Policyholder and 
entitlements of the policyholders under the said feature at periodic intervals – 
at least once in a year. 
k. Insurers shall also specify the manner of redeeming the benefits allowed 
under the said feature in the prospectus, policy wordings and shall disclose in 
their website updated information which is also to be reflected in the policy 
contract. 
l. Insurer shall be responsible for any errors or omission in calculation of 
accrued benefits and shall address the same through their in-house 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
m. Insurer shall specify, in the Policy Wordings and Prospectus, the mode of 
communication that the Insurer adopts for notification of various activities 
offered or allowed under the Wellness feature. 
n. Information gathered during the process of offering the wellness benefits, if 
any, shall be kept confidential and shall not be used for purposes other than 
what it is meant for. 
o. The Authority has the right to accept or reject wellness features if they are 
against policyholders’ interests and are not in line with fair market conduct 

notwithstanding the fact that they may broadly meet with the above 
guidelines. 
p. The Authority reserves the right to instruct the Insurance Company to 
withdraw any Wellness feature which is not in compliance with any 
regulations or guidelines issued by the Authority or which is found to be 
prejudicial to the interests of the policyholders or not in line with fair market 
conduct. The Authority also reserves the right in such cases to take 
appropriate action as deemed fit. 
q. Insurers shall ensure that advertisements highlight the insurance benefit 
offered and the wellness features do not predominate. 

The Provisions stipulated in this section shall be read in conjunction with Regulation (19) of HIR, 2016.

SCHEDULE – 1

DEFINITIONS (1) File & Use: File & Use procedure is one where the Insurer is NOT permitted to market the health insurance product without filing with and getting clearance of IRDAI. (2) Use & File: Use and File procedure is one where the Insurer is permitted to market the product after due approval by the Product Management Committee, without prior filing / approval of IRDAI. (3) Government Sponsored Health Insurance Scheme: Any Health Insurance Scheme designed or notified or sponsored or subsidized either fully or partly by the Central Government and/or State Government and offered by IRDAI registered Indian Insurance Companies shall be termed as Government Sponsored Health Insurance Scheme for the purpose of these Guidelines. Explanation: Any insurance scheme offered by any other public sector undertaking or autonomous body shall not constitute Government Sponsored Health Insurance Scheme. (4) Group Products: Subject to the provisions of HIR, 2016, these are products which are sold to a group as per the provisions of group guidelines issued by IRDAI vide circular 015/IRDA/Life/Circular/GI Guidelines/2005 dated 14th July 2005 as amended from time to time. (5) Non-Life Package Products: These are products created by combining covers pertaining to Health or PA or Travel with Non-Life Covers or Benefits but here the sections other than those falling under ‘Health Insurance Business’ would be predominant. Such product shall, however, comply with HIR, 2016 as far as sections falling under Health Insurance Business are concerned. (6) Health Package Products: Health Package products are products which are created by packaging various sections/benefits or Health Insurance products. They could contain sections offering other Non-life products but the majority of the sections would be related to Health Insurance Business. (7) Product Management Committee (PMC): Product Management Committee is a committee constituted by the insurer in terms of Circular No. IRDAI/NL/GDL/F&U/030/02/2016 dated 18 th February, 2016 for the purpose of efficient management of Insurer’s Products, which acts as an internal self-monitoring mechanism within an Insurer. Such Committee has the responsibility to ensure due diligence in the areas product design, protection of policyholders’ interests and regulatory compliance and shall be subject to broad Regulatory Overview.

SCHEDULE – 2

CUSTOMER INFORMATION SHEET Description is illustrative and not exhaustive

Sl No

| Title Description Policy | Clause Number |
| --- | --- |
| 1 Product Name · Approved Product Name | |
| 2 What am I covered for SPECIFY AS PER POLICY TERMS AND CONDITIONS: · Hospital admission longer than xx hrs · Related medical expenses incurred xx · Related medical expenses incurred · Specified / Listed procedures requiring · Cover for xx critical illness on undergoing · Hospital daily cash benefit of Rs—per · OPD / Dental/: Maternity coverage · Emergency or Travel Medical Assistance | days prior to hospitalization amounting to x% of claim within xx days from date of discharge / amounting to x% of claim. less than 24 hours hospitalization (day care) specified procedure or on diagnosis of an illness of specified severity day etc |
| · Any hospital admission primarily for · Pregnancy, infertility · Domiciliary treatment, treatment outside · Circumcision, sex change surgery, · Refractive error correction, hearing | investigation diagnostic purpose India. cosmetic surgery & plastic surgery. impairment correction, corrective & |

3 What are the major exclusions in the policy:

| | (Note: the above is a partial listing of the policy exclusions. Please refer to the policy clauses for the full listing) | · Organ donor expenses. · Substance abuse, self-inflicted injuries, · Hazardous sports, war, terrorism, civil · Any kind of service charge, surcharge, | cosmetic dental surgeries. STDs and HIV/AIDS. war or breach of law. admission fees, registration fees levied by the hospital. | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4 Waiting period · Initial waiting Period: xx days for all | | · Specific Waiting periods: · Pre-existing diseases: Covered after _ | illness (not applicable on renewal or for accidents) months / Not covered) | o xx months for xx diseases o xx months for yy diseases | (clauses aa to bb) (clauses cc to dd) (Insurers may specify the specific waiting periods) | |
| 5 Payment basis · Reimbursement of covered expenses up | | · Fixed amount on the occurrence of a | to specified limits AND/OR covered event | | | |
| 6 Loss Sharing · In case of a claim, this policy requires | | | you to share the following costs: | o Expenses exceeding the following | Sub-limits ß Room / ICU charges beyond -- ß For the following specified | ---------- diseases: |

| | | | o Deductible of Rs. XXX per claim / o xx% of each claim as Co | ß ______________ ß ______________ per year / both payment (yy% in a non-network hospital) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7 Renewal Conditions · Your policy is ordinarily renewable (OR | · After you attain the age of x years, the · Other terms and conditions of renewal | Guaranteed) up to age x (OR for x years) following features of your policy change: | · ---------------------- · ---------------------- | |
| 8 Renewal Benefits · x% increase in your annual limit for every | · In the case a claim is made during a · For every block of x claim free policy | claim free year policy year, the bonus proportion would reduce by x% in the following year. years, free health check up for the insured persons subject to maximum x% of sum insured. | | |
| 9 Cancellation · This policy would be cancelled, and no | | claim or refund would be due to you if: | o you have not correctly disclosed o Have otherwise encouraged or | details about current and past health status OR participated in any fraudulent claim under the policy. |
| 10 Claims · For Cashless Service: | · For Reimbursement of Claim | (Provide the details /web link from where Hospital Network details can be obtained) | | |

11 Policy Servicing/ Grievances/Complaints

| | (Note: Time limit for intimation and submission of claim documents, if any) | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Grievances/Complaints | · Company Officials: · IRDAI/(IGMS/Call Centre): · Ombudsman | (Note: Please provide the contact details, Toll free number/e-mail) |
| 12 Insured’s Rights · Free Look: | · Implied renewability (except on certain · Migration and Portability: (Note: · Increase in SI during the Policy term · Turn Around Time (TAT) for issue of Pre | specific grounds) Please mention e-mail and Address of the Person to be contacted for outward migration) (Note: Please provide the contact details, if allowed) Auth and settlement of Reimbursement |
| 13 Insured’s Obligations · Please disclose all pre-existing disease/s | · Disclosure of Material Information during | or condition/s before buying a policy. Non-disclosure may result in claim not being paid. the policy period such as change in occupation (Note: If applicable, please provide details of the format & to whom the form is to be sent) |

Legal Disclaimer Note: The information must be read in conjunction with the product brochure and policy document. In case of any conflict between the CIS and the policy document, the terms and conditions mentioned in the policy document shall prevail.

Annexure - 1 
APPLICATION FORM FOR FILING HEALTH INSURANCE PRODUCTS/ADD-ON 
OFFERED BY LIFE, HEALTH AND GENERAL INSURERS 
I. THIS APPLICATION IS APPLICABLE TO LIFE, HEALTH AND GENERAL 
INSURERS REGISTERED WITH INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA FOR CONDUCTING HEALTH 
INSURANCE BUSINESS IN INDIA FOR FILING HEALTH INSURANCE 
PRODUCTS UNDER THE CATEGORIES AS SPECIFIED IN GUIDELINES 
ON PRODUCT FILING IN HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS.THE 
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED HEREIN ARE TO BE COMPLIED WITH WHILE 
FILING THE PRODUCTS. 
1. Description of File and Use Procedure - 
a. An insurer, who wishes to introduce a new product under the category 
specified under Chapter III (A), (B) & (C) (File and Use Procedure) of 
Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business, shall file an 
application for such product with the Authority for the approval. 
b. A separate application shall be made in respect of each such product and 
each such Add-on Or Rider. 
c. This Form shall also be used by all Life Insurers and by General and 
Health Insurers as referred at Clause (III) (13) of Chapter (IV) of the 
Product Filing Guidelines for filing the Group Health Insurance Products. 
2. Filing of new insurance products - 
a. An insurer, wishing to introduce a product as above, shall submit an 
application to the Authority along with Form IRDAI - FNUHIP for the 
approval of the Authority. 
3. Procedure to be followed for modifications in the existing products – 
a. The Application is divided into the following sections. 
I. General Information 
II. General Terms and Conditions 
III. Benefit Structure 
IV. Underwriting 
V. Other Terms 
VI. Distribution Channels 
VII. Reinsurance arrangements 
VIII. Pricing 
IX. Enclosure to F&U Application 

b. Application seeking modification of the existing individual/Group insurance product shall furnish information under the relevant section or sections that are proposed to be modified and consequently impacted owing to such modification. c. Every modification shall be supported by the technical note of the appointed actuary substantiating the modifications proposed. d. Where Changes proposed to the product impact Benefit Structure, Terms and Conditions and the Pricing, complete application shall be filed. 4. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS a. If an insurer wishes to offer Add-ons along with a basic health insurance product, the Company must furnish the information in respect of the respective Add-ons separately using this form for each proposed Add-on. Also the financial projections along with sensitivity analysis for each add-on benefit need to be furnished. b. Where already cleared Add-on/s is/are proposed to be offered along with the new product now filed, Insurers shall necessarily furnish the financial projections / Sensitivity Analysis for each of the Add-on separately. Note: If an insurer offers an existing Add-on A along with product X, product Y or product Z (e.g. Critical Illness), then financial projection / Sensitivity Analysis has to be furnished afresh along with each of the products under which the said Add-on is proposed to be offered. This is because the financial projections for the Add-on may differ under that product. For instance, the financial projections submitted for Add-on A along with product X need not be the same when the same Add-on A is offered along with product Y. As such the financial projections / Sensitivity Analysis need to be furnished for the said Add-on along with each product in the specified sections. It may be noted that Add-on details need not be mentioned again but only the financial projections are to be filed, when the same Add-on is offered along with the second or the third product. c. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details. d. The Appointed Actuary shall initial on all the pages of the File and Use application form.

NOTE: FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS APPLICATION ADD-ON INCLUDES RIDERS OFFERED BY LIFE INSURERS.

II. File and Use Application form: Form IRDAI – FNU-HIP [All the items should be filled in properly and carefully. No item must be left blank.]

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Section I: General Information | | |
| 1.1 Name of Life / Health / | General Insurer | |
| 1.2 Registration No.alloted by | IRDAI | |
| 1.3 Name of Appointed Actuary | [Please note that his/her appointment should be in force as on the date of this application] | |
| 1.4 Type of product | | Base Product/Add-on/Rider |
| 1.5 Brand Name [Give the name | of the product which will be printed in Sales Literature and known in the market. This name should not be altered/modified in any form after launching in the market. This name shall appear in all returns etc. which would be submitted to IRDAI. Insurers are advised to indicate in the brand name the type of product offered, such as Micro, Pilot, CSC etc. as per extant regulations / guidelines] | |
| 1.6 Whether New or Modification | | New / Modification of existing product |
| 1.7 Date of approval by PMC | (applicable to General and Health Insurers) | |
| 1.8 Specify the Sections which | are being modified | |

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | |
| 1.1 Name of Life / Health / | | |
| 1.2 Registration No.alloted by | | |
| 1.3 Name of Appointed Actuary | [Please note that his/her appointment should be in force as on the date of this | |
| | | Base Product/Add-on/Rider |
| 1.5 Brand Name [Give the name | of the product which will be printed in Sales Literature and known in the market. This name should not be altered/modified in any form after launching in the market. This name shall appear in all returns etc. which would be submitted to IRDAI. Insurers are advised to indicate in the brand name the type of product offered, such as Micro, Pilot, CSC etc. as per extant regulations / | |
| | | New / Modification of existing product |
| 1.7 Date of approval by PMC | (applicable to General and | |
| 1.8 Specify the Sections which | | |

| 1.8.1 Unique ID no. | (allotted by IRDAI, where application is for modification of | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1.8.2 Within how many | days the Insurer intends to launch the modified version of the product after clearance by the | |
| 1.8.3 Type of Modification 1. Pricing with change in Benefit Structure | | 2. Pricing without change in Benefit Structure 3. Pricing with Change in Terms and Conditions 4. Pricing without Change in Terms and Conditions 5. Terms and Conditions without pricing impact 6. Benefit Structure without pricing impact 7. Others – Please Specify |
| | Is the Product Modification filed for | Yes/No |
| 1.8.4.1 If YES, Please | furnish the date of first filing of the product. If No, please give furnish information in item | dd/mm/yyyy |

an exisitng product) Authority.

1.8.4

Is the Product Modification filed for the first time?

6.3.

1.8.4.1 If YES, Please furnish the date of first filing of the product. If No, please give furnish information in item no. 1.9

1.8.4.2

Justification for such modification

Any supporting data for such modification

Propose d modifica tions

Please give the proposed modifications in the following tabular form S.no Existing Features / assumpti ons/premi ums rates –which are proposed to modify

1.9

Date of clearance of the modification from the Authority and the unique identification number allotted

Please give complete history of modifications carried out till date in the 
following tabular format 
S No Date 
of 
modif 
icatio 
n 
filed 
with 
the 
Autho 
rity 

Features/Assumption s/premium rates modified from the first/subsequent filing i.e. after the clearance of the modification

| | n | rates as on | first/subsequent filing unique identification i.e. after the number allotted |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | filed | date of | clearance of the |
| | with | clearance of | modification |
| | the | the product | |
| | Autho | i.e. before the | |
| | rity | modification | |

Exisitng Features/ Assumptions/ premium

(1) (2) (3)

(4) (5)

Dd/mm/yyyy

1.10 Proposed Date of launching the modified version of the product

1.11 Whether the modification of the product involves change in Price? If yes, furnish the information in Section VIII. If no, furnish a certifiation from the Appointed Actuary that there is no affect on the pricing of the product.

| 1.11 Whether the modification of | the product involves change in Price? If yes, furnish the information in Section VIII. If no, furnish a certifiation from the Appointed Actuary that there is no affect on the | YES/NO | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.12 Expected loss ratio & | Combined Ratio (for the product) at the time of filing the product or modification of the product, as the case may be vis-à-vis the actual incurred loss ratio & actual Combined Ratio (Data to be furnished separately for each | FY Loss Ratio % Combined Ratio% | Expected Actual Expected Actual |
| 1.13 Number of Plans or Variants | or options within the Product | Name of the Base Product Number of plans or variants or Options | |

| 1.12 Expected loss ratio & | Combined Ratio (for the product) at the time of filing the product or modification of the product, as the case may be vis-à-vis the actual incurred loss ratio & actual Combined Ratio (Data to be furnished separately for each Financial Year) |
| --- | --- |
| 1.13 Number of Plans or Variants | or options within the Product and Nomenclature Used |

| | |
| --- | --- |
| 1.14 Within how many days the | Insurer is proposing to launch the new product after the clearance by Authority. |

| 2.1 Whether Pilot Product – Yes / No | |
| --- | --- |
| 2.2 If Yes Maximum Number of Years product proposed to be marketed: | |
| 2.3 If Yes product is to cover – Specific Market Segment (e.g. a specific class of | substandard lives) or a Specific disease |
| 2.4 Objective, basis which the product is proposed to be offered as a Pilot | Product (provide Description separately, if necessary ) |
| 2.5 Whether the product is Micro Insurance Product – Yes / No | |
| 2.6 Whether the Product is for any specific Distribution Channel like CSC, PoS | |

1.14 Within how many days the 
Insurer is proposing to launch 
the new product after the 
clearance by Authority. 
Section II : General Terms and Conditions 
2.7 Whether the health product is offered to/through: [Answer YES/NO] 
2.7.1 Individual/Group Individual/Group 
2.7.1.1 

On Family Floater basis

| | | | Name of plan or variant or option (Mention each name separately in each sentense) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.14 Within how many days the | Insurer is proposing to launch the new product after the | | |
| Section II : General Terms and Conditions 2.1 Whether Pilot Product – Yes / No 2.2 If Yes Maximum Number of Years product proposed to be marketed: 2.3 If Yes product is to cover – Specific Market Segment (e.g. a specific class of 2.4 Objective, basis which the product is proposed to be offered as a Pilot 2.5 Whether the product is Micro Insurance Product – Yes / No 2.6 Whether the Product is for any specific Distribution Channel like CSC, PoS 2.7 Whether the health product is offered to/through: [Answer YES/NO] | substandard lives) or a Specific disease Product (provide Description separately, if necessary ) | | |
| | 2.7.1 Individual/Group Individual/Group | | |
| | | | YES / NO |
| | 2.7.1.2 On Individual basis YES/NO | | |
| | | Family Floater basis | YES / NO |
| | 2.7.2 Specific geographic | | YES / NO |
| | | | YES / NO |
| | 2.7.4 Rural population YES / NO | | |
| | | | YES / NO |
| | | | Health/Travel-Domestic/Travel - Overseas/Personal Accident / Critical Illness |
| | | | YES / NO |
| | | | YES / NO |
| | 2.7.10 Both Indemnity and | | Yes/No |

YES / NO 
2.7.1.2 On Individual basis YES/NO 
2.7.1.3 Both Individual and 
Family Floater basis 

2.7.2 Specific geographic locations in India [if YES, specify the locations.]

2.7.3 All geographic locations in India

YES / NO 
2.7.4 Rural population YES / NO 
2.8.5 Micro Insurance 
Market Segment 

2.7.6 Category of basic cover

2.7.7 Only Indemnity basis

2.7.9 Only Assured Benefit basis

2.7.10 Both Indemnity and Assured benefit Basis

2.8 Specify the following: 2.8.1 Target population [This section should discuss the target market for which the product is designed. Also please enclose separately the details of any market research conducted for this purpose.] 2.8.2 Whether Grace period allowed for renewal—specify the number of days allowed for renewal of the contract. 2.8.3 Whether Grace period allowed for payment of premiums in installments— specify the number of days allowed for payment of premium when premiums are not paid on stipulated dates.

| | separately the details |
| --- | --- |
| | renewal—specify the allowed for renewal of |
| | payment of premiums specify the number of not paid on stipulated |
| | |
| 2.8.4 Basic Sum Insured (in INR): | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |

2.8.4 Basic Sum Insured (in INR): 
2.8.4.1 Minimum 
offered 
2.8.4.2 Maximum 
offered 
2.8.5 Policy Period: 
2.8.5.1 Minimum 
Policy 
period 
offered 
2.8.5.2 Maximum 
Policy 

period offered 2.8.5.3 Premium paying term, if different from policy term

2.8.6 Modes of Premium Payment Offered: 2.8.6.1 State the modes of premium payment allowed-(Single premium /annual/ halfy-yearly, etc.)

| | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | | paying term, | (a) Minimum Premium Paying Term (b) Maximum Premium Paying Term |
| 2.8.6 Modes of Premium Payment Offered: | | | |
| | | halfy-yearly, | |
| | | | |
| 2.8.7 Annualised Premium (Wherever applicable) | | | |
| | | | |
| | | | |
| | | | |
| | | | |
| | 2.8.8.1 Minimum: Proposer Child Adult | | |
| | | | Proposer Child Adult |
| | | | |
| | | | Proposer Child Adult |
| | | | |
| | Restrictions on travel | | YES/NO |

2.8.7 Annualised Premium (Wherever applicable) 2.8.7.1 Minimum: 2.8.7.2 Maximum:

2.8.8 Entry Age:

2.8.8.2 Maximum:

2.8.9 Maximum Age at entry

2.8.9. 
1 

Specify the cover ceasing age of Child

2.8.1 
0 

Restrictions on travel outside India (If YES, specify the conditions]

2.8.1 
1 

Any other restrictions [If there is restriction proposed, the same should be furnished, e.g. future occupation]

2.8.1 
2 

Whether Nomination facility available

2.8.1 
3 

Whether Assignment allowed

Minimum Group Size

2.8.1 
4 

Section III: Benefit Structure

3

| Any other restrictions | | YES/NO | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | | Yes / No | |
| Whether Assignment | | Yes / No | |
| Minimum Group Size | | | |
| Benefit Structure of the Product. [This section shall describe the various contingencies under which the benfits would be payable and how these would be determined-please do not refer to any other document which is | | | |
| Event: Benefit Amount: | | | |
| | | | |
| details separately in each row for all plans, covers, sections, | | | |
| | | Whether Mandatory Yes / No Mention details separately for each cover or option | I |
| | Amount of Deductible@ % of Deductible@ Min Max Min Max | | |
| | | Whether Mandatory Yes / No | |

| | Event: Benefit Amount: | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 3.1 On Hospitalization | | |
| 3.2 On events other than (3.1) – | (please furnish the complete details separately in each row for all plans, covers, sections, Riders or Add-ons etc.) | |
| 3.3 Deductibles allowed | | |
| No. @Furnish the applicable information | Name of the Cover or Plan or Option or Add-on or Rider | Amount of Deductible@ % of Deductible@ Min Max Min Max |
| 3.4 Co-pay allowed | | |

Benefit Structure of the Product. [This section shall describe the various contingencies under which the benfits would be payable and how these would be determined-please do not refer to any other document which is enclosed along with this]

Sl. 
No. 

| | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Sl.No. Name of the @Furnish the applicable information | Cover or Plan or Option or Rider or Add on | Amount of Co-pay@ % of Co-pay@ Min Max Min Max |
| 3.5 Sub-limits, if any (Mention | separately for each Cover or Plan or Option or Rider or Add-on) | |
| 3.6 Whether cancellation (other | than free-look) by the insured allowed: | YES/NO |
| 3.6.1 If yes, Refund payable on | cancellation by the Insured | |
| 3.6.2 Whether cancellation by the | insurer allowed | YES/NO |
| 3.6.3 If yes, Refunds, if any, | payable on cancellation by the Insurer | |
| 3.7 Specify Non-forfeiture | conditions [When the contract would be not null and void] | |
| 3.8 Specify options available | under the product. (e.g. to increase or decrease benefits, plan changes, etc.) [This section should specify the various options available under the product.The charges , if any, towards the | |

| | | Mention details separately for each cover or option | | | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | | Amount of Co-pay@ % of Co-pay@ Min Max Min Max | | | | | | |
| | | Contingency Sub-Limits | | as a % of SI, if applicable | | | Sub limits in fixed rupee terms, if applicable | |
| | | YES/NO | | | | | | |
| 3.6.1 If yes, Refund payable on | | Time of Cancella tion | One Year | (specify for each tenure of policy) | Policy Duration | Two Year | | Three Year etc. |
| 3.6.2 Whether cancellation by the | | YES/NO | | | | | | |
| | | Time of Cancella tion | One Year | (specify for each tenure of policy) | Policy Duration | Two Year | | Three Year etc. |
| 3.7 Specify Non-forfeiture | conditions [When the contract | | | | | | | |
| 3.8 Specify options available | under the product. (e.g. to increase or decrease benefits, plan changes, etc.) [This section should specify the various options available under the product.The charges , if any, towards the | | | | | | | |

| | cost of the option shall also be specified. ] | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | | | |
| 3.9 Furnish complete information on already approved ADD-ons, proposed to be Section IV: Underwriting 4 Underwriting –Selection of Risks [This section should discuss how the | attached with this product if any 3.9.1 Add-ons attached to 3.9.2 Any other features 3.9.3 How the Add-on will different segments of the population will be dealt with for the purpose of underwriting (to the extent they are relevant and a brief detail of procedure adopted for assessment of various risk classes may be given.) | the product that may be relevant for the product. benefit the insured if taken along with this product | S.No Add-on |
| 4.1 Specify Non-medical Limit | [Where no pre-medical examination is asked for] | | |
| 4.2 Specify when and what | classes of lives would be subject to medical examination | | |
| 4.3 Whether any loading based | on the health status are applicable | | Yes / No |
| 4.4 Whether any loading based | on the occupation are applicable | | Yes / No |
| 4.5 Specify, any other | underwriting criteria | | |
| 4.6 Whether Underwriting of the | product aligned to the Board Approved Underwriting policy of the Company | | Yes / No |
| 4.7 Whether full costs of pre | policy medical check up are borne by the Insurer | | Yes / No |
| 4.8 If no, specify the percentage | proposed to be borne by the Insurer. | | |

| | cost of the option shall also | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | | | |
| 3.9 Furnish complete information on already approved ADD-ons, proposed to be | attached with this product if any 3.9.1 Add-ons attached to 3.9.2 Any other features | that may be relevant | S.No Add-on UIN Date of Name alloted by clearance IRDAI |
| | 3.9.3 How the Add-on will | benefit the insured if taken along with this | |
| 4 Underwriting –Selection of Risks [This section should discuss how the | different segments of the population will be dealt with for the purpose of underwriting (to the extent they are relevant and a brief detail of procedure adopted for assessment of various risk classes may be given.) | | |
| 4.1 Specify Non-medical Limit | [Where no pre-medical | | |
| 4.2 Specify when and what | classes of lives would be subject to medical | | |
| 4.3 Whether any loading based | on the health status are | | Yes / No |
| 4.4 Whether any loading based | on the occupation are | | Yes / No |
| 4.5 Specify, any other | | | |
| 4.6 Whether Underwriting of the | product aligned to the Board Approved Underwriting policy | | Yes / No |
| 4.7 Whether full costs of pre | policy medical check up are | | Yes / No |
| 4.8 If no, specify the percentage | proposed to be borne by the | | |

be specified. ] the product for the product. product Section IV: Underwriting examination is asked for] examination applicable

| 4.9 Waiting Periods in days | proposed, if any, for payment | | Name of Cover or Waiting Period (in Plan or Option Days) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4.10 Survival Periods in days | proposed, if any, for payment | | Name of Cover or Survival Period (in Plan or Option Days) |
| 4.11 Exclusions: please specify the | permanent exclusions proposed for payment of | | |
| 4.12 Time-bound Exclusions | proposed for payment of | | |
| | | | |
| | | | |
| 5.2 Conditions for | reinstatement/revival of the contract, in case of | | |
| 5.3 Whether the proposal form | proposed to be used for this product is already filed with | | Yes / No |
| 5.4 If Yes, furnish the Unique | Reference Number of the | | |
| 5.5 If No, attach the proposal | form afresh as per the applicable provisions of | | |
| | | | |
| | 6.1 Specify the various | distribution channels to be used for distributing the product- [reply shall be specific and can not refer to the replies like “as approved by IRDAI] | |

| 4.9 Waiting Periods in days | proposed, if any, for payment of benefits | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4.10 Survival Periods in days | proposed, if any, for payment of benefits | | |
| 4.11 Exclusions: please specify the | permanent exclusions proposed for payment of benefits | | |
| 4.12 Time-bound Exclusions | proposed for payment of benefits | | |
| Section V - Other Terms | | | |
| 5.1 Procedure for Renewal | | | |
| 5.2 Conditions for | reinstatement/revival of the contract, in case of installment premiums: | | |
| 5.3 Whether the proposal form | proposed to be used for this product is already filed with the Authority | | Yes / No |
| 5.4 If Yes, furnish the Unique | Reference Number of the Proposal Form | | |
| 5.5 If No, attach the proposal | form afresh as per the applicable provisions of Product Filing procedure. | | |
| Section VI - Distribution Channels 6 Distribution channels: 6.2 Expected proportions of | 6.1 Specify the various 6.1 Commission scales to business to be procured by each channel shall be indicated for the next 5 years. | distribution channels to be used for distributing the product- [reply shall be specific and can not refer to the replies like “as approved by IRDAI] distribution channels— specify the rates which are to be paid-[reply shall be specific] | Distribution Channel 1.Individual Agents |

Distribution Channel

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

1.Individual Agents

| | | 2. Corporate Agents 3. Insurance Brokers 4.Web Aggregators 5.Micro Insurance Agents 6.CSC 7.PoS 8.Direct – Only Online 9.Direct Marketing - Others (Incorporate separate line for each distribution channel) 10. Others specify 11. Total |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Section VII - Reinsurance arrangements | | |
| 7.1 Retention limit | | |
| 7.2 Name of the reinsurer (s) | | |
| 7.3 Terms of reinsurance(type of | reinsurance, commissions, etc.). | |
| 7.4 Any recapture provisions shall | be described. | |
| 7.5 Reinsurance rates provided | | |

7.6 Whether a copy of the reinsurance program and a copy of the Treaty is submitted to the Authority.

| | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | | | |
| 7.3 Terms of reinsurance(type of | | | |
| 7.4 Any recapture provisions shall | | | |
| | | | |
| 7.6 Whether a copy of the | reinsurance program and a copy of the Treaty is | | Yes/No |
| | | Whether reinsurance program and a copy of the treaty enclosed (required only if these are not filed with the | Yes/No |
| | | Whether the reisurance proposed for the product is in line with the Board approved | Yes / No |

7.6. 
1 

Whether reinsurance program and a copy of the treaty enclosed (required only if these are not filed with the Authority previously)

7.6. 
2 

Whether the reisurance proposed for the product is in line with the Board approved

Page 50 of 110 reinsurance program filed with the Authority

7.6. 
3 

If no, furnish the particulars

| | reinsurance program |
| --- | --- |
| | If no, furnish the |
| 8 Premium Loadings & Discounts (Please provide objective and transparent criteria to offer discounts/rebate/Loadings And complete financial justifications by AA to every item referred hereunder. In case of General and Health Insurers to be also furnished separately in the | |
| 8.1 Sum insured | |
| 8.2 Rebates/charges for | different modes |
| | |
| | |
| 8.5 Any other discounts | |
| 8.6 Maximum cap on all | Discounts for all variables taken |
| 8.7 Any loadings proposed | |
| 8.8 Maximum Cap on all | Loading for all variables taken |
| 8.9 Subrogation (Not | applicable to Health |

Section VIII: Pricing 
Technical Note) 
rebates/discounts 
offered, if any 
offered: 
8.3 Premium 
rebates/discounts 
offered 
together 
together 
Insurance) 
8.10 Pricing Assumptions and Methodology: The pricing assumptions and the 
methodology may vary depending on the nature of product. Give details of 
the following 

8.4 Staff rebates

| 8.11 Give the actuarial formulae, if | any, used; if not, state how premiums are arrived at briefly explaining the methodology and details: |
| --- | --- |
| 8.12 Source of data | (internal/industry/ reinsurance) |
| 8.13 Rate of morbidity [The tables | whereever relevant shall be the prescribed one.] |
| 8.14 Rates of policy terminations. | [The rates used must be in accordance with insurer’s experience. If such experience is not available, this can be from the industry/reinsurer’s experience .] |
| 8.15 Rate of interest, if any. [The | rate or rates must be consistent with the investment policy of the insurer.] |
| 8.16 Commission scales [Give | rates of commission. These are explicit items.] |

| 8.11 Give the actuarial formulae, if | any, used; if not, state how premiums are arrived at briefly explaining the | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8.12 Source of data | | | | |
| 8.13 Rate of morbidity [The tables | whereever relevant shall be | | | |
| 8.14 Rates of policy terminations. | [The rates used must be in accordance with insurer’s experience. If such experience is not available, this can be from the | | | |
| 8.15 Rate of interest, if any. [The | rate or rates must be consistent with the investment | | | |
| | | | | |
| 8.17 Expenses - Split into First Year, Renewal and Claim related:- [Expense | assumptions must be company specific. If such experience is not available, the Appointed Actuary might consider industry experience or make | First Year expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, per Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) by : | sum assured sum assured related, premium related, per policy related sum assured | premium related per policy related premium related per policy related |
| | | | | |

methodology and details: (internal/industry/ reinsurance) the prescribed one.] industry/reinsurer’s experience .] policy of the insurer.] 8.16 Commission scales [Give rates of commission. These are explicit items.] reasonable assumptions.] 8.17 .1

| 8.17 | First Year expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, per policy related | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| First Year Expenses | | sum assured related | premium related per policy related |
| 8.17 | Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) by : | sum assured related, premium related, per policy related | |

8.17 
.2 

sum assured related

Renewal Expenses

Claim expenses

8.17 
.3 
Page 52 of 110 
8.17 
.4 

| | Future inflationary |
| --- | --- |
| | |
| 8.19 Taxation. [Please see the | relevant sections of the Income Tax Act, 1961 applicable for payment of |
| 8.20 Any other parameter relevant | to pricing of product – specify |
| 8.21 Reserving assumptions | (please specify all the |
| 8.22 Base rate (risk premium)- | |
| 8.23 Gross premium- furnish the | |

| 8.19 Taxation. [Please see the | relevant sections of the Income Tax Act, 1961 applicable for payment of taxes by the Insurer] | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 8.20 Any other parameter relevant | to pricing of product – specify | |
| 8.21 Reserving assumptions | (please specify all the relevant details) | |
| 8.22 Base rate (risk premium)- | furnish the rate table, if any | |
| 8.23 Gross premium- furnish the | rate table, if any | |
| 8.24 Expected loss ratio (for the | product) -to be furnished for each plan offered within the product separately | |
| 8.25 Age-wise loss ratio- to be | furnished for each option or plan offered within the product separately | S.No Age Loss ratio |
| 8.26 Sum insured-wise- loss ratio | to be furnished for each option or plan offered within the product separately | S.No SA Loss ratio |

Future inflationary increases, if any 8.18 Allowance for transfers to shareholder, if any: [Please see section 49 of the Insurance Act, 1938]

S.No Age Loss ratio

S.No SA Loss ratio

Table given below (SI band and age bands shall be increased / decreased depending on the minimum and maximum SI / Age offered)

8.27 Age and sum insured wise loss ratio - to be furnished for each option or plan separately

25000 50000 100000 150000 200000

S.NO SI/Age bands

1 >=0<=2 
2 >=3<=15 
3 >=16<=25 
4 >=26<=30 
5 >=31<=35 
Page 53 of 110 

6 >=36<=40 
7 >=41<=45 
8 >=46<=50 
9 >=51<=55 
10 >=56<=60 
11 >=61<=65 
12 >=66 
8.28 Expected combined ratio (for 
the product) -to be furnished 
for each plan separately 
8.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to 
be furnished for each plan 
separately 
8.30 Sum insured-wise- combined 
ratio to be furnished for each 
plan separately 
8.31 Age and sum insured wise 
combined ratio - to be 
furnished for each option or 
plan separately 

| 8.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to | be furnished for each plan separately |
| --- | --- |
| 8.30 Sum insured-wise- combined | ratio to be furnished for each plan separately |

| 8.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to | be furnished for each plan |
| --- | --- |
| 8.30 Sum insured-wise- combined | ratio to be furnished for each |

Table given below (SI band and age bands shall be increased / decreased depending on the minimum and maximum SI /Age offered)

25000 50000 100000 150000 200000

S.NO SI/Age bands

1 >=0<=2 
2 >=3<=15 
3 >=16<=25 
4 >=26<=30 
5 >=31<=35 
6 >=36<=40 
7 >=41<=45 
8 >=46<=50 
9 >=51<=55 
10 >=56<=60 
11 >=61<=65 
Page 54 of 110 

I I I I I I

12 >=66 8.32 Expected cross-subsidy between age/sum insured/ plans etc 8.33 Experience of similar products, if any for the preceding Five Financial Years S.No Expos ure

| S.No Expos | Premi | Numb | Incurr | Claim | Avera | Burni | Loss Comb |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | ure um – | er of | ed | freque | ge | ng | ratio ined |
| | Rs. | claims | claims | ncy | cost | cost | ratio |
| | | | -Rs. | | per | Rs. | |

claim

FY 
FY-1 
FY-2 
FY-3 
FY-4 
1. Exposure: earned life year (no of life earned during a particular financial year); 
2. Premium: premium earned during the financial year; 
3.Number of claims: claims occurred during the financial year; 
4. Incurred claims: Incurred amount as of today for claims mentioned in “3”; 
5. Claim frequency: No. of claims/ Exposure; 
6. Average cost per claim: Incurred claims / No. of claims; 
7. Burning cost: Claims frequency* Average cost per claim; 
8. Loss ratio: Incurred claims/ Premium; 
9. Combined ratio: Loss ratio + Expense ratio; 
8.34 Whether principle of uniform 
spread of risk is taken into 
consideration while arriving 
the refunds payable on 
cancellation/termination of 
policy. Please substantiate 
with relevant data or 
assumptions 
8.35 Revision in pricing for existing products (Submit separately as an 
Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified 
premium rates for each rating factor) 

| 8.34 Whether principle of uniform | spread of risk is taken into consideration while arriving the refunds payable on cancellation/termination of policy. Please substantiate with relevant data or assumptions | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 8.35 Revision in pricing for existing products (Submit separately as an | Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified premium rates for each rating factor) | |
| 8.35. | Whether there is an increase or decrease in the premiums | Increase/Decrease/Increase in certain age groups only/Decrease in certain age groups |

| 8.34 Whether principle of uniform | spread of risk is taken into consideration while arriving the refunds payable on cancellation/termination of policy. Please substantiate with relevant data or | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 8.35 Revision in pricing for existing products (Submit separately as an | Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified premium rates for each rating factor) | |
| | | Increase/Decrease/Increase in certain age groups only/Decrease in certain age groups |

8.35. 
1 
Page 55 of 110 
8.35. 
2 
8.35. 
3 
8.35. 
4 

| | only/NA |
| --- | --- |
| | |
| | Experience of the product across In addition to the experience of similar products in Item 8.33, these tables to be furnished for the product for which revision in pricing is requested |
| | |
| 8.36 Results of Financial Projections/Sensitivity Analysis: [The profit margins | should be shown for various model points for base,optimistic and pessimistic scenarios in a tabular format below. The definition of profit margin should be taken as the present value of net profits to the p.v of premiums. Please specify assumptions made in each scenario. For terms less than or equal to one year loss ratio may be used and for terms more than one year, profit margin may be used.] |
| 8.37 Risk discount rate used in the | |
| 8.38 Average Sum Insured | |
| 8.39 Assumptions made under | |

How the pricing methodology differs between sum insured options profit margin Assumed pessimistic scenario 8.40 Assumptions made under optimistic scenario 8.41 Age [PM: Profit Margin/Loss Ratio] [Age Band may be revisted based on the product design paratmeters]

| | | only/NA |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 8.35. | Justification for change/ modification in premium | |
| 8.35. | Experience of the product across plans / sum insured / age bands | In addition to the experience of similar products in Item 8.33, these tables to be furnished for the product for which revision in pricing is requested |
| 8.35. | How the pricing methodology differs between sum insured options | |
| 8.36 Results of Financial Projections/Sensitivity Analysis: [The profit margins | should be shown for various model points for base,optimistic and pessimistic scenarios in a tabular format below. The definition of profit margin should be taken as the present value of net profits to the p.v of premiums. Please specify assumptions made in each scenario. For terms less than or equal to one year loss ratio may be used and for terms more than one year, profit margin may be used.] | |
| 8.37 Risk discount rate used in the | profit margin | |
| 8.38 Average Sum Insured | Assumed | |
| 8.39 Assumptions made under | pessimistic scenario | |
| 8.40 Assumptions made under | optimistic scenario | |
| 8.41 Age [PM: Profit | Margin/Loss Ratio] [Age Band may be revisted based on the product design paratmeters] | PM (base scenario) |
| | >=0<=2 | |
| | >=3<=15 | |
| | >=16<=25 | |
| | >=26<=30 | |
| | >=31<=35 | |
| | >=36<=40 | |
| | >=41<=45 | |
| | >=46<=50 | |
| | >=51<=55 | |

PM (base scenario)

PM (optimistic scenario)

PM (pessimistic scenario)

| >=56<=60 |
| --- |
| >=61<=65 |
| >=66 |

| | |
| --- | --- |
| 9.1 Sales Literature /Prospectus. This is the literature which is to be used by the | various distribution channels for selling the produc in the market. This shall enumerate all the salient features of the product alongwith the exclusions applicable for the basic benefits and shall be incomplaince with the relevant circulars issued by the Authority at all times). |
| 9.2 Policy Document & Policy Schedule: | |
| 9.3 Technical Note on Pricing (Not applicable to Life Insurers): | |
| 9.4 Proposal form, wherever necessary | |
| 9.5 Premium Table | |
| 9.6 Certificates by Appointed Actuary and Chief Compliance Officer | |
| 9.7 Product Check List with due certification by Chief Compliance Officer | |
| 9.8 Certificate of Insurance, where applicable | |
| 9.9 CIS | |

>=56<=60 
>=61<=65 
>=66 
Section IX: Enclosures to F&U Application: 
The following specimen documents should be enclosed: 
Soft ware used for product design and monitoring --- (for information of the Authority) 
The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Chief Compliance Officer, Appointed 
Actuary, countersigned by the principal officer of the insurer, as per specimen given 
below: (The language of this should not be altered) 
Certification by Chief Compliance Officer: 
I------- (Name of Chief Compliance Officer) the undersigned, on behalf of the Insurer named 
below, hereby affirm and declare as follows: 
1. That the details of the (Name of product) filled in above are true 
and correct and reflect what the policy and other documents indicate. 
2. That the product complies with the various provisions of the IRDAI Health Insurance 
Regulations, 2016, Guidelines on Standardization of Health Insurance, Product Filing 
issued thereon and the applicable provisions of extant IRDAI Regulations and all 
circulars issued by IRDAI from time to time. 
3. That the File and Use application and all other documents are complete and have 
been verified for correctness and consistency not only in respect of each item of 
each document but also vis-a-vis one another. 
4. I certify that the policy wordings filed along with file and use application is in 
compliance with IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016, Product Filing 
Guidelines and Guidelines on Standardization of Health Insurance issued thereon. 

5. I further certify, that the Prospectus submitted is in compliance with the applicable provisions of Rules, IRDAI Regulations and Guidelines on Product Filing and Insurance Advertisements.

Date: (Chief Compliance Officer) Name of Insurer:

Certification by Appointed Actuary: 
" I, (name of the appointed actuary), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly 
declare that the information furnished in this Application Form is true. I also certify 
that, in my opinion, the premium rates, advantages, terms and conditions of the 
above product are workable and sound, the assumptions are reasonable and 
premium rates are fair." 

I have carefully studied the requirements of the Product Filing Procedure in relation to the design and rating of insurance products.

The rates, terms and conditions of the above mentioned product are determined on 
technically sound basis and are sustainable on the basis of the information and 
claims experience available in the records of the insurer. 
An adequate system has been put in place for collection of data on premiums and 
claims based on every rating factor that will enable review of the rates and terms of 
the cover from time to time. It is planned to review the rates, terms and conditions of 
cover (--- mention periodicity of review) based on emerging experience. 
It is further certified that the underwriting of the product now filed shall be within the 
Board approved underwriting philosophy of the Company. 
The requirements of the Product Filing Procedure have been fully complied with in 
respect of this product or revision or modification of the product. 
I further declare that except the Sections mentioned in S.No., no other 
feature/benefit/clause is modified in the product (applicable only for revision or 
modification of the product) 

Place Signature of the Appointed Actuary Date:

Certification by Principal Officer or CEO 
I (name of the Principal Officer or CEO), (mention designation) hereby confirm that: 
1. The rates, terms and conditions of the above-mentioned product filed with this certificate 
have been determined in compliance with the IRDA Act, 1999, Insurance Act, 1938, and 
the Regulations and guidelines issued there under, including the File and Use / Product 
Filing guidelines. 
2. The prospectus, sales literature, policy and endorsement documents, and the rates, terms 
and conditions of the product have been prepared on a technically sound basis and on 
terms that are fair between the insurer and the client and are set out in language that is 
clear and unambiguous. 
3. These documents are also fully in compliance with the underwriting and rating policy 
approved by the Board of Directors of the insurer. 
4. The statements made in the filing Form IRDAI - FNUHIP are true and correct. 
5. The requirements of the Product Filing Guidelines have been fully complied with in 
respect of this product. 

Date: Signature of Principal Officer or Designated Officer Place: Name and designation along with Company’s seal

Annexure - 2 File and Use Application for Filing Health Package or Non-Life Package Products or Add-ons Offered by Health or General Insurers GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: a. Insurers shall use this form for filing of Health package or Non-Life Package products where already approved Health, Travel and Accident Products or Add ons are made part of the Health or Non-Life Package Product. b. This form is applicable only when already approved products are packaged and when no change in terms, conditions or price are made. c. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details. d. Forms along with the necessary enclosures mentioned here in shall be furnished.

Note: This form CANNOT be used if Insurers wish to file package products incorporating changes in products already approved by the Authority. In such case, the filing needs to be made as required under Guidelines on Product Filing for Health Insurance Products.

File and Use Application form for ‘Health Package’ or ‘Non-Life Package 
Products’ offered by General Insurers: 
FORM: IRDAI – FnUNLHP 

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | |
| --- | --- |
| 1 Name of Health or General | Insurer |
| 2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | |
| 3 Name of the proposed Package | Product |
| 4 Date of approval by PMC | |
| 6 Particulars of existing Health or | Non Life Product(s) which is made part of the proposed package product |
| 7 Name of the approved sections | as included in the proposed package product (applicable where only a section is packaged): |
| 7 Justification for packaging the | |

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | | | | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 Name of Health or General | | | | | | | |
| 2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | | | | | | |
| 3 Name of the proposed Package | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | |
| 6 Particulars of existing Health or | Non Life Product(s) which is made part of the proposed | S.No UIN and Dt of | Approval | | | Approved Brand name of the product | |
| 7 Name of the approved sections | as included in the proposed package product (applicable where only a section is | S.N o | UIN Approved | Brand name | of the product | | Approved Section |
| 7 Justification for packaging the | | | | | | | |

| | products / Add-ons | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 8 Whether the products being | packaged have any overlapping covers or sections? | Yes/No |
| 8.1 If yes, please justify the | packaging of these covers or sections. | |
| 9 Enclosures to the Application: | (1) Copy of Approval Letter of | the respective products or Add-ons proposed to be packaged. |
| 10 Any other information | | |

| | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8 Whether the products being packaged have any overlapping | Yes/No | | |
| | S.N Overlapping o covers /sections | Justificatio n for packaging the same | Treatment when claim arises under the said section/cover |
| 9 Enclosures to the Application: | | | |
| | | | |

Certification: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary, countersigned by the principal officer of the insurer, as per specimen given below: (The language of this should not be altered) " This is to certify that we have not altered any of the features, terms, conditions, policy wordings and the price of the existing approved products. We further undertake that the combined proposal and combined policy wording and schedule for the package policy shall include all the features of both these products.

This is further to certify that the section ------- (specify name of the section) proposed to be packaged has an independent premium rate approved under UIN ------. (Applicable where a section is proposed to be packaged)

Place Signature of the Appointed Actuary Date:

Name and Counter Signature of the Principal Officer along with name, and Company’s seal.

Annexure - 3 Application Form for Filing of Health Plus Life Combi Products/Riders Offered by Life or Health or General Insurers GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: a. Insurers shall use this form for filing of Health plus Life Combi-products when already approved products are integrated as Health plus Life Combi-product without making any change in terms, conditions or price in either of the approved products. b. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details. c. Forms along with the necessary enclosures shall be furnished, but NOT in piecemeal. Note: This form CANNOT be used if Insurers wish to file Health plus Life products incorporating changes in already approved products. In such case, the filing needs to be made separately as per extant Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business or F&U Procedure of Life Products respectively. File and Use Application form for ‘Health Plus Life Combi Products’ offered by Life , Health and General Insurers: Form IRDAI – FNU-HPLCombi

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 Name of General/Health Insurer | | |
| 2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | |
| 3 Name of the Life Insurer | | |
| 4 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | |
| 5 Name of the proposed Health | Plus Life Combi-Product | |
| 5.1 Name of the Lead Insurer | | |
| 6 Proposed date of introduction of | Health Plus Life Combi-Product | DD/MM/YYYY |
| 7 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU): | | |
| 7.1 Whether MOU filed with the | Authority? | Date of Filing: dd/mm/yyyy |
| 7.1.1 Furnish a Copy of MoU | | |
| 7.2 Period for which the MOU is | agreed upon for the purpose of promoting ‘Combi Products”? (Specify the dates) | From: DD/MM/YYYY To: DD/MM/YYYY |

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 Name of General/Health Insurer | | |
| 2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | |
| | | |
| 4 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | |
| 5 Name of the proposed Health | | |
| | | |
| 6 Proposed date of introduction of | | DD/MM/YYYY |
| 7 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU): | | |
| 7.1 Whether MOU filed with the | | Date of Filing: dd/mm/yyyy |
| | | |
| 7.2 Period for which the MOU is | agreed upon for the purpose of promoting ‘Combi Products”? | From: DD/MM/YYYY To: DD/MM/YYYY |

8 Product related Information:

| 8.1 Names of the existing approved | Health/Life Products which are made part of the proposed Health Plus Life Combi-Product |
| --- | --- |
| 8.2 Whether the product is proposed | Group/Individual to be offered to Groups or Individuals? |
| 8.3 Whether the Health Insurance is | YES/NO offered on Family Floater basis |
| 8.4 If YES, whether life insurance | YES/NO coverage is allowed on the life of proposer who shall be an earning member of the family only? |
| 8.5 Whether the product offered by | General/Health Insurer is Medical /Sickness/ Health cover? |
| 8.6 Whether Premium Component | of both the risks are separately identifiable? |
| 8.7 Whether the premium | component of both the risks disclosed separately to the policyholders in Policy Document and Prospectus/Sales literature? |
| 8.8 Whether ‘Free Look Period’ | option is provided to the ‘Combi Product’ as a whole? |
| 9 Other Information: | |
| 9.1 Distribution Channel wise | maximum commission allowed under the Combi Product |
| 9.2 Whether Operation procedures | put in place for updating premium on policy data on a real time basis in respect of the product under consideration? |

| 8.1 Names of the existing approved | Health/Life Products which are made part of the proposed Health Plus Life Combi-Product | Product offered by Health/ General Insurer Life Insurer | Name of the approved product | UIN Date of Approval by IRDAI |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 8.2 Whether the product is proposed | to be offered to Groups or | Group/Individual | | |
| 8.3 Whether the Health Insurance is | | YES/NO | | |
| 8.4 If YES, whether life insurance | coverage is allowed on the life of proposer who shall be an earning member of the family | YES/NO | | |
| 8.5 Whether the product offered by | General/Health Insurer is Medical /Sickness/ Health | | | |
| 8.6 Whether Premium Component | of both the risks are separately | | | |
| 8.7 Whether the premium | component of both the risks disclosed separately to the policyholders in Policy Document and Prospectus/Sales | | | |
| 8.8 Whether ‘Free Look Period’ | option is provided to the ‘Combi | | | |
| | | | | |
| 9.1 Distribution Channel wise | maximum commission allowed | Distribution Channel Others | Maximum Commission (as % of premium) Life Health | I |
| 9.2 Whether Operation procedures | put in place for updating premium on policy data on a real time basis in respect of the | | | |

| 9.3 Specify the options available to | policyholders of ‘Combi Products’ to discontinue either portion of risk coverage while continuing with the other portion, subject to the extant law, regulations, guidelines etc. | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 9.4 Whether the above options are | disclosed in Policy Document, Prospectus and Sales Literature? | |
| 9.5 Whether the Prospectus and | Policy Document specify the scope for withdrawal of tie-up between the two Insurer? | |
| 9.6 Whether provision of 90 days | notice period in case of withdrawal of tie-up mentioned in the Prospectus and Policy Document? | |
| 9.7 Specify the options available to | policyholders of ‘Combi Products’ upon withdrawal of tie up between the two Insurers | |
| 9.8 Whether the options available to | the policyholders of ‘Combi Products’ upon withdrawal of tie up between the two Insurers specified in the Prospectus and Policy Document? | |
| 9.9 Whether cost-benefit analysis | carried out by both the insurers? | YES/NO |
| 9.10 If YES, whether any discount | being offered on the premium in the combi-product? | YES/NO |
| 9.11 If Yes, whether discount is | offered on Life Product or Health Product or Both | Life/Health/Both |
| | Submit the relevant technical note by Appointed Actuary | |
| 9.12 If Yes, specify the Discount on | Health portion of the Product with objective criteria. | |
| 9.13 If Yes, specify the Discount on | Life portion of the Product with objective criteria. | |
| 9.14 Whether the discount is | disclosed in Policy document & prospectus? | YES/NO |
| 9.15 Whether Mandatory minimum | | |

| 9.3 Specify the options available to | policyholders of ‘Combi Products’ to discontinue either portion of risk coverage while continuing with the other portion, subject to the extant law, | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 9.4 Whether the above options are | disclosed in Policy Document, Prospectus and Sales | |
| 9.5 Whether the Prospectus and | Policy Document specify the scope for withdrawal of tie-up | |
| 9.6 Whether provision of 90 days | notice period in case of withdrawal of tie-up mentioned in the Prospectus and Policy | |
| 9.7 Specify the options available to | policyholders of ‘Combi Products’ upon withdrawal of tie | |
| 9.8 Whether the options available to | the policyholders of ‘Combi Products’ upon withdrawal of tie up between the two Insurers specified in the Prospectus and | |
| 9.9 Whether cost-benefit analysis | carried out by both the insurers? | YES/NO |
| 9.10 If YES, whether any discount | being offered on the premium in | YES/NO |
| 9.11 If Yes, whether discount is | offered on Life Product or Health | Life/Health/Both |
| | Submit the relevant technical | |
| 9.12 If Yes, specify the Discount on | Health portion of the Product | Rate of Discount Objective Criteria |
| 9.13 If Yes, specify the Discount on | Life portion of the Product with | Rate of Discount Objective Criteria |
| 9.14 Whether the discount is | disclosed in Policy document & | YES/NO |
| 9.15 Whether Mandatory minimum | | |

9.11. 
1 
Page 64 of 110 

| | disclosures are made in the Policy Document? | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 10 Date of approval by PMC of lead | Insurer | dd/mm/yyyy |
| 10.1 Date of approval by PMC of | other Insurer | dd/mm/yyyy |

| disclosures are made in the | |
| --- | --- |
| 10 Date of approval by PMC of lead | dd/mm/yyyy |
| 10.1 Date of approval by PMC of | dd/mm/yyyy |

Certification -1: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary 
countersigned by the principal officer of the lead insurer, as per specimen given 
below: (The language of this should not be altered) 
"This is to certify that the Life or Health portion (strike off whichever is not applicable) of the 
proposed Combi product --- (Name of Combi Product) is the product approved by the 
Authority and we have not altered any of the features, terms, conditions and the price of the 
existing approved product. However, owing to the benefits of combining the products, a 
discount of --- is proposed to be offered after actuarial evaluation.”. 
Place Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date: 
Name and countersignature of the Principal Officer of the Lead Insurance Company 
The Insurer shall also enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary of the other 
insurer (other than lead insurer), as per specimen given below: (The language of this 
should not be altered) 
"This is to certify that the Life or Health portion (strike off whichever is not applicable) of the 
proposed Combi product --- (Name of Combi Product) is the product approved by the 
Authority and we have not altered any of the features, terms, conditions and the price of the 
existing approved product. However, owing to the benefits of combining the products, a 
discount of --- is proposed to be offered after actuarial evaluation.”. 
Place Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date: Name of the Appointed Actuary of the Other Insurance Company 
Certification by Chief Compliance Officer of Lead Insurer on Mandatory minimum 
disclosures: 
" This is to certify that all the mandatory minimum disclosures have been made in the Policy 
document, Prospectus and proposal form of the Health plus Life Combi-product as per 
extant Regulations and Guidelines.” 
Place Signature of Chief Compliance Officer 
Date: 

Annexure - 4 
Application Form for Filing of Group Health Insurance Products offered by Health or 
General Insurers under Use and File Procedure 
(Not applicable to Life Insurers) 
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
a. THIS FORM IS APPLICABLE TO ALL HEALTH AND GENERAL INSURERS 
REGISTERED WITH INSURANCE REGULATORY AND DEVELOPMENT 
AUTHORITY OF INDIA FOR CONDUCTING HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS 
IN INDIA FOR FILING INFORMATION ON GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE 
PRODUCTS UNDER CHAPTER - IV OF GUIDELINES ON PRODUCT FILING 
IN HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS. 
b. An Insurer wishing to introduce a new Group Health Insurance product (other 
than Government Sponsored Scheme) shall submit an application to the 
Authority in this Form within seven days from the date of approval by the Product 
Management Committee (PMC) and obtain an UIN. Any group policy issued 
under this product shall be in total compliance with the product filed under this 
form. Where any modifications or changes are proposed to customise the 
requirements of the policyholders, such product shall be treated as a new group 
insurance product and shall follow the norms specified herein for obtaining a 
fresh UIN. 
c. For every Group Health Insurance Product filed under these Use & File 
Guidelines, the Insurer shall furnish Annual Return in Form – IRDAI – GHISAR 
within 60 days from the close of every Financial Year. 
d. Insurers shall maintain the records such as proposal form, internal notes, details 
of quotation given and details of acceptance, details premium worksheet along 
with the basis for working including previous claims details, Policy Schedule, list 
of named beneficiaries wherever applicable etc with respect to every policy 
issued for a minimum period of 5 years from the expiry of every Policy issued 
under this Product. Insurers must also justify the rates and terms including 
discounts given to any group to the Authority, if called upon to do so. 
e. Insurer shall also maintain the ICR of every policy issued to the Groups. 
f. The existing Insurer receiving request from any other insurer shall furnish the 
information related to ICR of the Group for the policy years serviced by it (for a 
maximum period of 5 policy years) within 07 working days from the date of such 
request. 
g. All items in the Forms must be furnished with the relevant details. 
h. All the enclosures as specified shall be furnished together, but not in piecemeal. 

Use & File Application form for ‘Group Health Insurance Products’ offered by Health or General Insurers

FORM – IRDAI – UnF HLTGRP

S No

| | Item Particulars (to be filled by the | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Section I: General Information | | |
| 1.1 Name of Health or General | Insurer | |
| 1.2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | |
| 1.3 Name of the Group Health | Insurance Product | |
| 1.4 Date of approval by the PMC | | |
| 1.5 Whether the Product is launched? Yes / No | | |
| 1.6 If yes, Date of Launching of the | Product | DD/MM/YYYY |
| 1.7 If no, proposed date of launching DD/MM/YYYY | | |
| 1.8 Whether Product is catered to the | Social Sector | Yes / No |

| | Item Particulars (to be filled by the | Insurer) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | |
| 1.1 Name of Health or General | | |
| | | |
| 1.3 Name of the Group Health | | |
| | | |
| 1.5 Whether the Product is launched? Yes / No | | |
| 1.6 If yes, Date of Launching of the | DD/MM/YYYY | |
| 1.7 If no, proposed date of launching DD/MM/YYYY | | |
| 1.8 Whether Product is catered to the | Yes / No | |
| | | |
| 2.1 Type of Coverage Indemnity Yes/No | Benefit Yes/No Both Indemnity & Benefit Individual Floater | Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No |

Section II: Details of the Product 
2.1 Type of Coverage Indemnity Yes/No 
Benefit Yes/No 
Both Indemnity & 
Benefit 
Individual 
Floater 

2.2 Structure of Base Cover offered in the Product:

| S.No Name of | | | Whether If yes, range of | Whether If yes, range of Co |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | the | | Deductibl Deductible | Co-Pay Pay |
| | Benefit | | e allowed | allowed |
| | | | Yes/ Minimum Maximu | Yes/ Minimu Maximu |

m m m

Yes/ No

Yes/ No

| 2.3 Any sub limits imposed Yes / No | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | Details of sub limits imposed in the following format (furnish separately for each option or plan of the group insurance product) Name of Option or Plan: Type of Benefit for which sub limit is imposed | | Sub Limit in absolute terms (in INR) Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum | |
| 2.4 Sum Insured offered Minimum(Rs.) Maximum (Rs.) | | | | |
| 2.5 Whether any Add ons offered Yes / No | | | | |
| 2.6 If yes, Number of Add ons offered | | | | |
| | Details of Add ons Offered Nam e of Add on | Sum Assured Min Max Min Max Min Max Min Max | | Deductible Co-Pay Sub Limit |
| 2.7 Number of Options or plans Offered | | | | |

| 2.3 Any sub limits imposed Yes / No | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | Details of sub limits imposed in the following format (furnish separately for each option or plan of the group insurance product) | Sub Limit in absolute terms Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum | Sub Limit as a percentage |
| 2.4 Sum Insured offered Minimum(Rs.) Maximum (Rs.) | | | |
| 2.5 Whether any Add ons offered Yes / No | | | |
| | | | |
| | Min Max Min Max Min Max Min Max | | Deductible Co-Pay Sub Limit |
| | | | |

2.7 Number of Options or plans Offered Details of Options Offered Nam e

Deductible Co-Pay Sub Limit

Sum Assured

I I I I I I I

| 2.8 Minimum membership of the Group | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2.9 Target Group Employer-Employee | | | |
| 2.10 Expected ICR | | | |
| 2.11 Whether a Board approved | underwriting policy is in place with respect to this Group Health Insurance Product? | | |
| 2.12 If yes, date of filing with the | Authority | | |
| 2.13 Whether the Underwriting mandates | considering previous claims experience of the Group for pricing the Scheme? | | |
| 2.14 Whether Loadings are allowed Yes / No | | | |
| 2.15 Specify the objective criteria basis | which loadings are levied | | |
| 2.16 Details of Loadings | Criteria In Absolute Terms (INR), if | applicable Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum | I I |
| 2.16.1 What is the maximum cap on | Loadings | | |
| 2.17 Whether Discounts are allowed Yes / No | | | |
| 2.18 Specify the objective criteria basis | which discounts are allowed | | |

| 2.8 Minimum membership of the Group | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2.9 Target Group Employer-Employee | | | | |
| | | | | Non-Employer-Employee |
| | | | | Social Sector |
| | | | | Others (Please specify) |
| | | | | |
| 2.11 Whether a Board approved | underwriting policy is in place with respect to this Group Health | | | |
| 2.12 If yes, date of filing with the | | | | |
| 2.13 Whether the Underwriting mandates | considering previous claims experience of the Group for pricing | | | |
| 2.14 Whether Loadings are allowed Yes / No | | | | |
| 2.15 Specify the objective criteria basis | | | | |
| | Criteria In Absolute Terms (INR), if | Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum | I I | In Percentage, if applicable |
| 2.16.1 What is the maximum cap on | | | | |
| 2.17 Whether Discounts are allowed Yes / No | | | | |
| 2.18 Specify the objective criteria basis | | | | |

Min Max Min Max Min Max Min Max Non-Employer-Employee Social Sector Others (Please specify)

2.19 Details of Discounts

In Percentage, if applicable

Criteria In Absolute Terms (INR), if applicable

I I

| 2.19.1 What is maximum cap on Discounts | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2.19.2 Any additional information | concerning Loadings and Discounts | |
| 2.20 Whether system is in place to | ensure that the underwriting procedure laid down for the Product is followed? | |
| 2.21 Any wellness or preventive elements | offered | Yes/No (If Yes Give complete details as an annexure) |
| Section III: Reinsurance arrangements: | | |
| 3.1 Retention limit | | |
| 3.2 Name of the reinsurer(s) | | |
| 3.3 Terms of reinsurance (type of | reinsurance, commissions, etc | |
| 3.4 Any recapture provisions shall be | described | |
| 3.5 Reinsurance rates provided | | |
| 3.6 Whether a copy of the reinsurance | program and a copy of the Treaty is submitted to the Authority | |

| 2.19.1 What is maximum cap on Discounts | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2.19.2 Any additional information | concerning Loadings and Discounts | |
| 2.20 Whether system is in place to | ensure that the underwriting procedure laid down for the Product | |
| 2.21 Any wellness or preventive elements | | Yes/No (If Yes Give complete details as an annexure) |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 3.3 Terms of reinsurance (type of | | |
| 3.4 Any recapture provisions shall be | | |
| | | |
| 3.6 Whether a copy of the reinsurance | program and a copy of the Treaty is | |

Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum 
Section IV: Pricing: 
4 Premium Loadings & Discounts 
(Please provide objective and transparent criteria to offer 
discounts/rebate/Loadings And complete financial justifications by AA to 
every item referred hereunder. 
In case of General and Health Insurers to be also furnished separately 
in the Technical Note) 

4.1 Sum insured rebates/discounts offered, if any 4.2 Rebates/charges for different modes offered: 4.3 Premium rebates/discounts

4.4 Staff rebates

4.5 Any other discounts offered

4.9

| 4.1 Sum insured | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4.2 Rebates/charges for | | different modes |
| | | |
| | | |
| 4.5 Any other discounts | | |
| | | Subrogation (Not applicable to Health |
| 4.10 Pricing Assumptions and Methodology: The pricing assumptions and | the methodology may vary depending on the nature of product. Give | |
| 4.11 Give the actuarial | formulae, if any, used; if not, state how premiums are arrived at briefly explaining the methodology | |
| 4.12 Source of data | | |
| 4.13 Rate of morbidity [The | tables whereever relevant shall be the prescribed | |
| 4.14 Rates of policy | terminations. [The rates used must be in accordance with insurer’s experience. If such experience is not available, this can be from the | |
| 4.15 Rate of interest, if any. [The | rate or rates must be consistent with the | |

Insurance) details of the following and details: (internal/industry/ reinsurance) one.] industry/reinsurer’s experience .]

| 4.11 Give the actuarial | formulae, if any, used; if not, state how premiums are arrived at briefly explaining the methodology and details: |
| --- | --- |
| 4.12 Source of data | (internal/industry/ reinsurance) |
| 4.13 Rate of morbidity [The | tables whereever relevant shall be the prescribed one.] |
| 4.14 Rates of policy | terminations. [The rates used must be in accordance with insurer’s experience. If such experience is not available, this can be from the industry/reinsurer’s experience .] |
| 4.15 Rate of interest, if any. [The | rate or rates must be consistent with the |

| 4.17.1 First Year expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, | per policy related | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| First Year Expenses | | sum assured related | premium related | per policy related |
| 4.17.2Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) | by : sum assured related, premium related, per policy related | | | |

Renewal Expenses

| | investment policy of the insurer.] | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4.16 Commission scales [Give | rates of commission. These are explicit items.] | | |
| 4.17 Expenses - Split into First Year, Renewal and Claim related:- [Expense 4.18 Allowance for transfers to | assumptions must be company specific. If such experience is not available, the Appointed Actuary might consider industry experience or make reasonable assumptions.] 4.17.1 First Year expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, First Year Expenses 4.17.2Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) Renewal Expenses 4.17.3 Claim expenses 4.17.4 Future inflationary shareholder, if any: [Please see section 49 of the Insurance Act, 1938] | per policy related by : sum assured related, premium related, per policy related increases, if any | sum assured related sum assured related |
| 4.19 Taxation. [Please see the | relevant sections of the Income Tax Act, 1961 applicable for payment of taxes by the Insurer] | | |
| 4.20 Any other parameter | relevant to pricing of product – specify | | |
| 4.21 Reserving assumptions | (please specify all the relevant details) | | |
| 4.22 Base rate (risk premium)- | furnish the rate table, if any | | |
| 4.23 Gross premium- furnish the | rate table, if any | | |
| 4.24 Expected loss ratio (for the | product) -to be furnished for | | |

| | investment policy of the | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | rates of commission. These | | | | |
| 4.17 Expenses - Split into First Year, Renewal and Claim related:- [Expense | assumptions must be company specific. If such experience is not available, the Appointed Actuary might consider industry experience or make reasonable assumptions.] 4.17.1 First Year expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, 4.17.2Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) | per policy related by : sum assured related, premium related, per policy related | sum assured sum assured | premium related premium related | per policy related per policy related |
| | | | | | |
| | 4.17.4 Future inflationary | | | | |
| | shareholder, if any: [Please | | | | |
| 4.19 Taxation. [Please see the | relevant sections of the Income Tax Act, 1961 applicable for payment of | | | | |
| 4.20 Any other parameter | relevant to pricing of | | | | |
| 4.21 Reserving assumptions | (please specify all the | | | | |
| 4.22 Base rate (risk premium)- | | | | | |
| 4.23 Gross premium- furnish the | | | | | |
| 4.24 Expected loss ratio (for the | product) -to be furnished for | | | | |

insurer.] 4.16 Commission scales [Give are explicit items.] First Year Expenses

S.No Age Loss ratio

| | each plan offered within the product separately | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4.25 Age-wise loss ratio- to be | furnished for each option or plan offered within the product separately | S.No Age Loss ratio |
| 4.26 Sum insured-wise- loss | ratio to be furnished for each option or plan offered within the product separately | S.No SA Loss ratio |

S.No SA Loss ratio

4.27 Age and sum insured wise loss ratio - to be furnished for each option or plan separately

Table given below (SI band and age bands shall be increased / decreased depending on the minimum and maximum SI / Age offered)

25000 50000 100000 150000 200000

S.N O

SI/Age bands

1 >=0<=2 
2 >=3<=15 
3 >=16<=25 
4 >=26<=30 
5 >=31<=35 
6 >=36<=40 
7 >=41<=45 
8 >=46<=50 
9 >=51<=55 
10 >=56<=60 
11 >=61<=65 
12 >=66 
4.28 Expected combined ratio 
(for the product) -to be 
furnished for each plan 
separately 
4.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to 
be furnished for each plan 
separately 
4.30 Sum insured-wise 
combined ratio to be 

| 4.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to | be furnished for each plan separately |
| --- | --- |
| 4.30 Sum insured-wise | combined ratio to be |

| 4.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to | be furnished for each plan |
| --- | --- |
| 4.30 Sum insured-wise | combined ratio to be |

| combined ratio - to be | | | bands shall be increased / decreased | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| furnished for each option or | | | depending on the minimum and maximum | | | | |
| plan separately | | | SI /Age offered) | | | | |
| S.NO SI/Age | | 25000 50000 100000 150000 200000 | | | | | |

furnished for each plan separately 4.31 Age and sum insured wise Table given below (SI band and age bands

1 >=0<=2 
2 >=3<=15 
3 >=16<=25 
4 >=26<=30 
5 >=31<=35 
6 >=36<=40 
7 >=41<=45 
8 >=46<=50 
9 >=51<=55 
10 >=56<=60 
11 >=61<=65 
12 >=66 
4.32 Expected cross-subsidy 
between age/sum insured/ 
plans etc 
4.33 Experience of similar 
products, if any for the 
preceding Five Financial 
Years 
S.No Expo 
sure 

| S.No Expo | Pre | Num | Incur | Clai | Aver | Burni Loss | Com |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| sure | miu | ber | red | m | age | ng ratio | bine |
| | m – | of | claim | frequ | cost | cost | d |
| | Rs. | claim | s-Rs. | ency | per | Rs. | ratio |
| | | s | | | claim | | |

FY 
FY-1 
FY-2 
FY-3 
FY-4 
Page 74 of 110 

1. Exposure: earned life year (no of life earned during a particular financial 
year); 
2. Premium: premium earned during the financial year; 
3.Number of claims: claims occurred during the financial year; 
4. Incurred claims: Incurred amount as of today for claims mentioned in “3”; 
5. Claim frequency: No. of claims/ Exposure; 
6. Average cost per claim: Incurred claims / No. of claims; 
7. Burning cost: Claims frequency* Average cost per claim; 
8. Loss ratio: Incurred claims/ Premium; 
9. Combined ratio: Loss ratio + Expense ratio; 
4.34 Whether principle of 
uniform spread of risk is 
taken into consideration 
while arriving the refunds 
payable on 
cancellation/termination of 
policy. Please substantiate 
with relevant data or 
assumptions 
4.35 Revision in pricing for existing products (Submit separately as an 
Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified 
premium rates for each rating factor) 

| 4.34 Whether principle of | uniform spread of risk is taken into consideration while arriving the refunds payable on cancellation/termination of policy. Please substantiate with relevant data or assumptions | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4.35 Revision in pricing for existing products (Submit separately as an | Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified premium rates for each rating factor) | |
| 4.35. | Whether there is an increase or decrease in the premiums | Increase/Decrease/Increase in certain age groups only/Decrease in certain age groups only/NA |
| 4.35. | Justification for change/ modification in premium | |
| 4.35. | Experience of the product across plans / sum insured / age bands | In addition to the experience of similar products in Item 4.33, these tables to be furnished for the product for which revision in pricing is requested |
| 4.35. | How the pricing methodology differs between sum insured options | |

| 4.34 Whether principle of | uniform spread of risk is taken into consideration while arriving the refunds payable on cancellation/termination of policy. Please substantiate with relevant data or | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4.35 Revision in pricing for existing products (Submit separately as an | Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified premium rates for each rating factor) | |
| | Whether there is an increase or | Increase/Decrease/Increase in certain age groups only/Decrease in certain age groups only/NA |
| | | |
| | | In addition to the experience of similar products in Item 4.33, these tables to be furnished for the product for which revision in pricing is requested |
| | | |

4.35. 
1 
4.35. 
2 
4.35. 
3 
4.35. 
4 

How the pricing methodology differs between sum insured options 4.36 Results of Financial Projections/Sensitivity Analysis: [The profit margins should be shown for various model points for base,optimistic and pessimistic scenarios in a tabular format below. The definition of profit margin should be taken as the present value of net profits to the p.v of premiums. Please specify assumptions made in each scenario. For terms less than or equal to one year loss ratio may be used and for

terms more than one year, profit margin may be used.]

| 4.37 Risk discount rate used in |
| --- |
| 4.38 Average Sum Insured |
| 4.39 Assumptions made under |

PM (base scenario)

PM (pessimistic scenario)

PM (optimistic scenario)

| 4.37 Risk discount rate used in the profit margin |
| --- |
| 4.38 Average Sum Insured Assumed |
| 4.39 Assumptions made under pessimistic scenario |
| 4.40 Assumptions made under optimistic scenario |
| 4.41 Age [PM: Profit PM (base Margin/Loss Ratio] [Age scenario) Band may be revisted based on the product design paratmeters] |
| >=0<=2 |
| >=3<=15 |
| >=16<=25 |
| >=26<=30 |
| >=31<=35 |
| >=36<=40 |
| >=41<=45 |
| >=46<=50 |
| >=51<=55 |
| >=56<=60 |
| >=61<=65 |
| >=66 |

Section IV: Documents to be submitted

25 Documents Submitted:

S.No Name of the Document

Yes/No

1 Policy Wordings, 
Policy Schedule 
and Certificate of 
Insurance 
2 Underwriting Policy 
applicable to the 
Product 
3 Rating Chart 
4 Technical Note 
(Where modification of the pricing of the Group Product is proposed, Submit 
separately as an Annexure, percentage difference between existing and 
modified premium rates for each rating factor) 
Certification. The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed 
Actuary, Chief Compliance Officer, countersigned by the principal officer of 
the insurer, as per specimen given below: (The language of this should not 
be altered) 
CERTIFICATE BY APPOINTED ACTUARY: 
" I, (name of the appointed actuary), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly 
declare that the information furnished above is true. I also certify that, in my 
opinion, the premium rates, advantages, terms and conditions of the above product 
are workable and sound, the assumptions are reasonable and premium rates are fair 
and the rates proposed are viable. It is further to confirm that the product is in 
compliance with Health Insurance Regulations, 2016 and norms specified in Product 
Filing Procedure." 

Place Signature of the Appointed Actuary Date:

CERTIFICATE BY CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER: I ------ (Name of CCO) hereby solemnly declare that the information filed in respect of the above Group Insurance Product is as cleared by PMC and being marketed

without any variation. We undertake to file the product afresh if there is any variation in the product filed above.

Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer

Place Date:

Name and Counter Signature of the principal officer along with name, and Company’s seal.

Annexure - 5 Application Form for Filing of Government Sponsored Health Insurance Schemes offered by Life or Health or General Insurers GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: a. Insurers shall use this form for filing of a Government sponsored Health Insurance Schemes b. An Insurer shall file a Government sponsored Health Insurance Scheme within 15 days from the date of award of tender or date of MoU, whichever is earlier, in the Format prescribed. c. Section (IV) is applicable for Extension of an existing Scheme and Section (V) is applicable for subsequent award of Tender of an existing Scheme in a different geographic location. d. For every Scheme filed under these Guidelines, the Insurance Company shall furnish Annual Return in Form IRDAI – GHIS within 60 days from the close of the Financial Year. e. All items in the Format must be furnished with relevant details. f. All the enclosures as specified shall be furnished together, but not in piecemeal. Use and File Application form for ‘Government Sponsored Health Insurance Schemes’ offered by either Life or Health or General Insurers FORM – IRDAI-UNF-GOVTHLT

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | |
| --- | --- |
| | Section I: General Information |
| 1.1 Name of Life or Health or General | Insurer |
| 1.1.1 Names of Other Insurers (where | Insurer referred at 1.1 above is the lead insurer) |
| 1.2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | |
| 1.2.1 Registration No. alloted by IRDAI to | other insurers |
| 1.3 Name of the Scheme | |
| 1.4 Whether this is a Government | Sponsored Scheme? (If yes, specify the Department, if sponsored by Central Government. In case of State Government, specify the State.) |

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) | |
| --- | --- |
| | |
| 1.1 Name of Life or Health or General | |
| 1.1.1 Names of Other Insurers (where | Insurer referred at 1.1 above is the |
| | |
| 1.2.1 Registration No. alloted by IRDAI to | |
| | |
| 1.4 Whether this is a Government | Sponsored Scheme? (If yes, specify the Department, if sponsored by Central Government. In case of State |

State/ Central Govt.

Department Name of State if sponsored by State Govt.

Name of the Corresponding District / Geographic Unit (to be furnished where entire state is not awarded)

| 1.5 Date of award of Tender for the | first time | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.6 Whether Premium is subsidized by | Government | | Yes / No |
| 1.6.1 If yes furnish the following | information with regard to the share of the premium subsidized | | |
| | Premium Subsidy In absolute terms In Percentage | Central Govt / Dept | State Govt Others (like |
| | | | |
| 1.7 Whether Claim is subsidized by | Government | | |
| 1.7.1 If yes furnish the following | information with regard to the share of the Claim subsidized | | |

| 1.5 Date of award of Tender for the | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.6 Whether Premium is subsidized by | | Yes / No | | |
| 1.6.1 If yes furnish the following | information with regard to the share | | | |
| | | State Govt Others (like | Local Govt Municipality) | Beneficiary |
| | | | | |
| 1.7 Whether Claim is subsidized by | | | | |
| 1.7.1 If yes furnish the following | information with regard to the share | | | |

Claim Subsidy

Beneficiary

Central Govt / Dept

State Govt Others (like Local Govt Municipality)

In absolute 
terms 
In 
Percentage 

| 1.8 Whether the scheme is launched? Yes / No | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.8.1 If yes, Date of Launching of the | Scheme | | DD/MM/YYYY |
| 1.8.2 If no, Target Date of Launching / | Implementation or Introduction of the Scheme | | DD/MM/YYYY |
| | Section II: Details of the Scheme | | |
| 2.1 Whether the Scheme is in | compliance with the provision of Section 64VB of Insurance Act? | | |
| 2.2 Whether the filing of the product as | accepted is made within 15 days from the date of award of tender? (If No, give reasons for the delay) | | |
| 2.3 Whether a new product is | designed to cover the tendered scheme | | Yes / No |
| 2.4 If Yes furnish the details of the | scheme in the following format | | |
| | Type of Policy Individual / Nature of Coverage Minimum Sum Assured Maximum Sum Assured Minimum Age at Entry Maximum Age | Group Health Coverage / Personal Accident | |

| 1.8 Whether the scheme is launched? Yes / No | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.8.1 If yes, Date of Launching of the | | | DD/MM/YYYY |
| 1.8.2 If no, Target Date of Launching / | Implementation or Introduction of | | DD/MM/YYYY |
| | | | |
| 2.1 Whether the Scheme is in | compliance with the provision of | | |
| 2.2 Whether the filing of the product as | accepted is made within 15 days from the date of award of tender? | | |
| 2.3 Whether a new product is | designed to cover the tendered | | Yes / No |
| 2.4 If Yes furnish the details of the | | | |
| | | Coverage / | |

| | at Entry Benefit Coverage | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2.5 Whether an existing product of the | insurer, which is approved by the Authority, is in total conformity with the proposed insurance scheme including the pricing? | Yes / No |
| 2.5.1 If yes, specify UIN & Brand name | as approved by the Authority. | UIN: Brand Name: |
| 2.6 Specify the period of insurance for | which the insurer is awarded the tender (in Months). | |
| | Section III: Pricing (to be furnished where new scheme is designed to cover the tender) | |
| 3.1 Whether the pricing of the | schemes is based on the previous experience of such schemes offered by the insurer, if any; If yes, give details | |
| 3.2 Period for which price is | guaranteed | |
| 3.3 Method of computation of premium | | |
| 3.4 Sources of Data | | |
| 3.5 Assumptions made | | |
| 3.6 Loadings made | | |

| | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2.5 Whether an existing product of the | insurer, which is approved by the Authority, is in total conformity with the proposed insurance scheme | Yes / No |
| 2.5.1 If yes, specify UIN & Brand name | | UIN: Brand Name: |
| 2.6 Specify the period of insurance for | which the insurer is awarded the | |
| | Section III: Pricing (to be furnished where new scheme is designed to | |
| 3.1 Whether the pricing of the | schemes is based on the previous experience of such schemes offered by the insurer, if any; If | |
| 3.2 Period for which price is | | |
| 3.3 Method of computation of premium | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |

3.7 Expected Loss Ratios for three succeeding years

S.No Year Expected Loss Ratio

1 
2 
3 

3.8 Expected Combined Ratios for three years

S.No Year Expected Combined Ratio

1 
2 
3 

| 3.9 Expected Profit Margins for Three | years) | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Section IV: Extension of Existing Scheme | | |
| 4.1 Whether this is the first Extension? | If no, specify whether 2 nd / 3 rd Extension etc. | |
| 4.1.1 Date of previous Extension | | |
| 4.2 Whether Extension awarded for all | Geographic locations as per the last filed/approved Schemes? | Yes / No |
| 4.3 If No, specify the geographic | locations (Names of States or Districts / Geographic Unit as the case may be) now awarded in the following format | |
| 4.4 Names of States Name of geographic Unit of the | (Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and Geographic Unit) | |
| 4.5 Whether any additional geographic | locations awarded? | Yes / No |
| 4.5.1 If Yes, specify the geographic | locations (Names of States or Geographic Units as the case may be) now awarded in the following | |

| 3.9 Expected Profit Margins for Three | | S.No Year Expected Profit Margin 1 2 3 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | |
| 4.1 Whether this is the first Extension? | If no, specify whether 2 nd / 3 rd | |
| | | |
| 4.2 Whether Extension awarded for all | Geographic locations as per the | Yes / No |
| 4.3 If No, specify the geographic | locations (Names of States or Districts / Geographic Unit as the case may be) now awarded in the | |
| 4.4 Names of States Name of geographic Unit of the | | state where scheme is awarded |
| | (Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and | |
| | | |
| 4.5 Whether any additional geographic | | Yes / No |
| 4.5.1 If Yes, specify the geographic | locations (Names of States or Geographic Units as the case may be) now awarded in the following | |

state where scheme is awarded

| 4.4 Names of States Name of geographic Unit of the state where scheme is awarded |
| --- |
| (Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and Geographic Unit) |
| |

| Names of States Name of corresponding Geographic Units of the state where scheme is awarded |
| --- |
| Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and district |
| |

| | format | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | Names of States Name of corresponding Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and district | |
| 4.6 Whether there is any change in the | features of the Product? | Yes / No |
| 4.6.1 If yes, specify the details of the | changes made and furnish the information in Section III. | |
| 4.7 Whether there is any difference in | the pricing of the contract? | Yes / No |
| 4.7.1 If yes, furnish the information in | Section III. | |
| 4.8 Loss Ratio for last Four Half Years | at the scheme level | |
| 4.9 Geographic location (State and | District) wise Loss Ratio for the last four financial years. | |
| | Name of State Name of District Fin. Year ending | |
| 4.10 Whether Loss ratio is more than | 90% for last 4 Half-Years consecutively? | YES/NO |

| | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | Names of States Name of corresponding | Geographic Units of the state where scheme is awarded | |
| | Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and | | |
| | | | |
| 4.6 Whether there is any change in the | | Yes / No | |
| 4.6.1 If yes, specify the details of the | changes made and furnish the | | |
| 4.7 Whether there is any difference in | | Yes / No | |
| 4.7.1 If yes, furnish the information in | | | |
| 4.8 Loss Ratio for last Four Half Years | | Half Year Loss Ratio | |
| 4.9 Geographic location (State and | District) wise Loss Ratio for the | | |
| | Name of State Name of District Fin. Year ending | Period | Loss Ratio |
| 4.10 Whether Loss ratio is more than | 90% for last 4 Half-Years | YES/NO | |

Geographic Units of the state where scheme is awarded Period

| 4.10.1 If yes, Furnish the Assumed and | actual Loss Ratios. | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4.10.2 Actuarial Justification for variance | as above | | |
| Section V: Subsequent Award of Tender for different Areas 5.1 Specify the details of all the places for which the insurer is awarded the Names of States Name of Information to be furnished in separate line for each state and district | tender now in the following format. | corresponding Districts / Geographical Unit of the state where scheme is awarded | |
| 5.2 Specify the period for which the | insurer is awarded the tender. | | dd/mm/yyyy to dd/mm/yyyy |
| 5.3 Whether there is any change in the | features of the Product? | | Yes / No |
| 5.3.1 If yes, specify the details of the | changes made. | | |
| 5.4 Whether there is any difference in | the pricing of the contract? | | Yes / No |

| 4.10.1 If yes, Furnish the Assumed and | | | Fin.Year Ending Period | Loss Ratio Actual assumed Loss Ratio |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4.10.2 Actuarial Justification for variance | | | | |
| Section V: Subsequent Award of Tender for different Areas 5.1 Specify the details of all the places for which the insurer is awarded the Names of States Name of | tender now in the following format. | corresponding Districts / Geographical Unit of the state where scheme is awarded | | Duration for which the tender is awarded (in months) |
| 5.2 Specify the period for which the | | | dd/mm/yyyy to dd/mm/yyyy | |
| 5.3 Whether there is any change in the | | | Yes / No | |
| 5.3.1 If yes, specify the details of the | | | | |
| 5.4 Whether there is any difference in | | | Yes / No | |

| 5.4.1 If yes, furnish the information in | Section III. |
| --- | --- |
| 5.5 Documents Submitted: | |

| 5.4.1 If yes, furnish the information in | |
| --- | --- |
| S.N o 1 Policy Wordings 2 Tender Document 3 Tender Allotment 4 MoU with TPA 5 Technical Note 6 MoU with Govt | Name of the YES/N Document O Letter |

Certification: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary, 
countersigned by the principal officer of the insurer, in the following format : (The language 
of this should not be altered) 
" I, (name of the appointed actuary), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly declare that 
the information furnished above is true. I also certify that, in my opinion, the premium rates, 
advantages, terms and conditions of the above product are workable and sound, the 
assumptions are reasonable and premium rates are fair and the rates proposed are viable." 
Place Signature of the Appointed Actuary. 
Date: 
Name and Counter Signature of the principal officer along with name, and 
Company’s seal. 

Annexure - 6 Information to be furnished on Withdrawal of Health Insurance Products or Add-ons or Riders Offered by Life or Health or General Insurers GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: a. Insurers shall use the specified form for filing information about withdrawal of existing Health Insurance products or Add-ons or Riders. Format shall be used separately for each Product or Add-on or Rider. b. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details. c. The form shall be filed within 30 days from the date of withdrawing the product.

FORM: IRDAI – HPW

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by the Insurer) | |
| --- | --- |
| 1 Name of Life or Health or | General Insurer |
| 2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | |
| 3 Name of Appointed Actuary | [Please note that his/her appointment should be in force as on the date of this application] |
| 4 Product UIN: | |
| 5 Brand Name of the Product as | approved by the Authority |
| 6 Date of first approval of the | product by IRDAI |
| 7 Date of launch of the Product | |
| 8 Date(s) of approval of | subsequent Revision/ modification of the product by IRDAI in chronological order. |
| 9 Date of withdrawal of the | product |
| 10 Date of approval of PMC for | withdrawal of Product |
| 11 Financial year-wise business | details of the product for the preceding three Financial Years (Data to be provided as on the immediate month-end preceding the date of this application) |

| S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by the Insurer) | | | | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 Name of Life or Health or | | | | | | | |
| 2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI | | | | | | | |
| 3 Name of Appointed Actuary | [Please note that his/her appointment should be in force as on the date of this | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | |
| 5 Brand Name of the Product as | | | | | | | |
| 6 Date of first approval of the | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | |
| 8 Date(s) of approval of | subsequent Revision/ modification of the product by | S.No Date of approval of | | subsequent Revision /Modification(s) | | | |
| 9 Date of withdrawal of the | | | | | | | |
| 10 Date of approval of PMC for | | | | | | | |
| | preceding three Financial Years immediate month-end preceding | F Y | No. of Policies / Riders / Add-ons issued | | No. of Lives covere d | No. of Policies /Riders / Add ons in force | Gross Premium (Rs.) |

| S.No Date of approval of subsequent Revision /Modification(s) |
| --- |
| |

| | | I I I I I I |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 12 Expected loss ratio & Combined | Ratio (for the product) vis-à-vis the incurred loss ratio & Combined Ratio (Data to be furnished for each Financial Year)(Applicable only for Health and General Insurers) | I I I I I I |
| 13 Justification for withdrawal of the | product: | |

| | | I I I I I I | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 12 Expected loss ratio & Combined | Ratio (for the product) vis-à-vis the incurred loss ratio & Combined Ratio (Data to be furnished for each Financial Year)(Applicable only for Health | FY Loss Ratio % Combined Ratio% I I I I I I | Expected Actual Expected Actual |
| 13 Justification for withdrawal of the | | | |

Certification: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary, Chief 
Compliance Officer and Principal Officer of the Company, as per specimen given below: 
(The language of this should not be altered) 
" I, (name of the appointed actuary), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly declare that the 
information furnished above is true. 
Place 
Date: Name & Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
I (Name of Chief Compliance Officer), the Chief Compliance Officer, hereby solemnly 
declare that the Company will ensure compliance with the extant regulatory norms 
governing the withdrawal of the products. 

Place Date: Name & Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer " This is to confirm that the information furnished above is true. The Company shall comply with extant Regulations with regard to the obligations towards all the existing Policyholders. Further, a notice period of 90 days has been provided to every existing policyholder prior to withdrawal of the Product (Not applicable to Life Insurers).”

Place Name and Signature of the principal officer Date: Company’s seal .

Annexure – 7

| I General & Product Type Details Remarks | |
| --- | --- |
| 1. Name of the Insurance Co | |
| 2. Name of the Product Filed | |
| 3. Date of Filing | |
| 4. Proposed Date of Launching of | the product |
| 5. New/Revision/Add-On | |
| 5.i If revision, no. of revisions | made so far with dates of approval: 1. 2. 3. |
| 6. UIN | |
| 7. Whether Product is meant for | any specific group/geographical location |
| 8. Type of Product (Hospitalization | /CI /PA /Travel /Combi /Package/ Micro /Govt. Scheme/ Deductible based) |
| 8.1 Is it filed on modular filing basis | (package product)? Y/N. If yes, the sections/plans/overages: 1. 2. 3. |
| 9. Nature of Product (Indemnity | /Benefit /CI/Travel/PA) |
| 10. Individual/Group/Family Floater | |
| 11 Whether a Pilot Product? | |
| 12 If yes, whether all disclosures | related to Pilot Product made in the Prospectus and Policy Wordings? |

| I General & Product Type Details Remarks | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 4. Proposed Date of Launching of | | |
| | | |
| 5.i If revision, no. of revisions | made so far with dates of | |
| | | |
| 7. Whether Product is meant for | any specific group/geographical | |
| 8. Type of Product (Hospitalization | /CI /PA /Travel /Combi /Package/ Micro /Govt. | |
| 8.1 Is it filed on modular filing basis | (package product)? Y/N. If yes, | |
| 9. Nature of Product (Indemnity | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 12 If yes, whether all disclosures | related to Pilot Product made in the Prospectus and Policy | 29(iii) |

Product Filing Check-List cum Certification 
FORM – IRDAI-HLT-CLC 
(Refer File and Use Application) 
1. Name of the Insurance Co 
2. Name of the Product Filed 
3. Date of Filing 
the product 
5. New/Revision/Add-On 
approval: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
6. UIN 
location 
Scheme/ Deductible based) 
the sections/plans/overages: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
/Benefit /CI/Travel/PA) 
10. Individual/Group/Family Floater 
11 Whether a Pilot Product? 
Wordings? 

29(iii)

8(d)

8(d) & 19

| 13 Whether product offers any | Wellness/Preventive Programs. | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 14 If yes, whether such program | offers discounts on third party merchandise or services? Give details | |
| II Health Insurance Scenario Details Remarks | | |
| 1. Total Health Insurance Portfolio | Net Earned Premium as published in Annual Reports for last 3 Fin. years | I I I I I I iii)Travel I I I |
| 2. Total Health Insurance portfolio | Net ICR with IBNR separately as published in Annual Reports for last 3 Fin. years | |
| 3. List of products so far cleared | by the Authority with date of approval: | |
| 4. List of Products Not launched | | I I I |

| 13 Whether product offers any | Wellness/Preventive Programs. | | | | | | | | 8(d) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 14 If yes, whether such program | offers discounts on third party merchandise or services? Give | | | | | | | | 8(d) & 19 |
| II Health Insurance Scenario Details Remarks | | | | | | | | | |
| 1. Total Health Insurance Portfolio | Net Earned Premium as published in Annual Reports for | F.Y. Net Earned Premium I I I F.Y. Net Earned Premium I I I iii)Travel F.Y. Net Earned Premium I I I | i) Health ii) Personal Accident | | | | | | |
| 2. Total Health Insurance portfolio | Net ICR with IBNR separately as published in Annual Reports | F.Y. Net ICR(excluding | | | IBNR) | | | IBNR | |
| 3. List of products so far cleared | by the Authority with date of | S. No . 1. 2. 3. | Name of the Product | Date of approval | | No. of persons covered | Net Premium | | Net ICR |
| | | S. No. Name of the Product 1. 2. 3. I I I | | | | | | | |

| S. No. Name of the Product |
| --- |
| |
| |
| I I I |

| 5. List of Products Withdrawn with | dates S. No. Name of the |
| --- | --- |
| III. Documentation Whether filed: YES/NO Remarks | |
| 1. Application Form | |
| 2. Signatures by Key Officials | referred on Declarations |
| 3. CIS | |
| 4. Prospectus | |
| 5. Proposal Form | |
| 6. Additional form for Change of | Occupation(if applicable) |
| 7. Rate Chart | |
| 8. Actuary Report/Technical Note | |
| 9. Policy Document | |
| 10. Policy Schedule | |
| 11. Endorsements | |
| 12. Others (Specify) | |
| IV Completeness of Documents | filed |
| 1. Are the relevant Application | form is complete in all respects and signed by the persons as desired. |
| 2. Is CIS submitted in the manner | it is required under Regulations & Guidelines? |
| 3. Is standard Claim Form being | used as prescribed? If no, give reasons. |
| 4. Is standard Pre-Authorisation | form (wherever applicable) as prescribed being used? If no, give reasons. |
| | |

| 5. List of Products Withdrawn with | dates S. No. Name of the | Date of Product withdrawal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| III. Documentation Whether filed: YES/NO Remarks | | |
| | | |
| 2. Signatures by Key Officials | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 6. Additional form for Change of | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | Whether YES/NO/Not Applicable Remarks |
| 1. Are the relevant Application | form is complete in all respects and signed by the persons as | |
| 2. Is CIS submitted in the manner | it is required under Regulations | |
| 3. Is standard Claim Form being | used as prescribed? If no, give | |
| 4. Is standard Pre-Authorisation | form (wherever applicable) as prescribed being used? If no, | |
| | | |

Product

1. Application Form 
referred on Declarations 
3. CIS 
4. Prospectus 
5. Proposal Form 
Occupation(if applicable) 
7. Rate Chart 
8. Actuary Report/Technical Note 
9. Policy Document 
10. Policy Schedule 
11. Endorsements 
12. Others (Specify) 
IV Completeness of Documents 
filed 
desired. 
& Guidelines? 
reasons. 
give reasons. 
All the details under the clauses of below mentioned documents filed shall be as per the 
Health Insurance Regulation mentioned against that particular clause 
V PROSPECTUS 

Page

Yes/No/Not Applicable (with comments, if any)

Particulars to be specified

Regulation/ Product Filing Guidelines

(PFG)

| | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 Whether Prospectus is in | compliance with extant guidelines applicable to Advertisements? | |
| 2 Whether mechanisms or | incentives to reward policyholders for early entry, continued renewals (wherever applicable), favourable claims experience are disclosed | |
| 3 Whether incentives to | reward policyholders for following Wellness or Preventive Habits (where applicable) disclosed | |
| 4 Whether all Coverage | details are provided | 1. 2. 3. |
| 5 Whether Min & Max Entry | age for Adults & Children are separately provided | |
| 6. Whether Max Renewable | Age is provided | |
| 7. Whether Minimum & | Maximum SI is provided | |
| 8. Whether Rate Chart forms | part of the Prospectus. | |
| 9. Whether Risk | Loading/Discount details disclosed | |
| 10. Whether All exclusions are | mentioned | |
| 11. Whether the period of | insurance offered is clearly spelt out | |
| 12. Whether Instalment | premium involved | |
| 13. If yes, whether any grace | period provided for payment of instalments | |
| 14. Whether Renewal Clause | (Terms of Renewal) is clearly stated | |

| | | (PFG) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 Whether Prospectus is in | compliance with extant guidelines applicable to | |
| 2 Whether mechanisms or | incentives to reward policyholders for early entry, continued renewals (wherever applicable), favourable claims | |
| 3 Whether incentives to | reward policyholders for following Wellness or Preventive Habits (where | |
| 4 Whether all Coverage | | 1. 2. 3. |
| 5 Whether Min & Max Entry | age for Adults & Children | |
| 6. Whether Max Renewable | | |
| 7. Whether Minimum & | | |
| 8. Whether Rate Chart forms | | |
| 9. Whether Risk | Loading/Discount details | |
| 10. Whether All exclusions are | | |
| 11. Whether the period of | insurance offered is clearly | |
| 12. Whether Instalment | | |
| 13. If yes, whether any grace | period provided for payment | |
| 14. Whether Renewal Clause | (Terms of Renewal) is | |

| 15. Whether Cancellation | Clause & reasons for cancellation with refunds, if any, are specified |
| --- | --- |
| 16. Does the document contain | Short Period Rates (applicable to General and Health Insurers) |
| 17. Is Free Look Period | specified |
| 18. Is Grace Period for | Renewal specified |
| 19. Are Co-pay, Deductibles, | Excess details, if any, are clearly stated |
| 20. Is TPA facility provided? If | so, whether TPA details are specified. |
| 21. Whether details for Pre- | acceptance health examination are provided |
| 22. Whether Reimbursement of | Pre-policy Health Check Up Cost specified. If yes, at what percentage |
| 23. Whether Cumulative Bonus, | if any, is provided |
| 24. Whether Portability | provisions are specified |
| 25. Whether AYUSH cover is | provided, if yes, is there any sub-limit |
| 26. Whether Option to migrate | to any other Suitable Policy is provided |
| 27. Whether 3 Months Notice | provision in case of revision is clearly stated |
| 28. Whether details of | possibility of revision/modification of the product in future is specified |
| 29. Whether details of | possibility of withdrawal of |

| 15. Whether Cancellation | Clause & reasons for cancellation with refunds, if | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 16. Does the document contain | Short Period Rates (applicable to General and | | |
| 17. Is Free Look Period | | | |
| 18. Is Grace Period for | | | |
| 19. Are Co-pay, Deductibles, | Excess details, if any, are | | |
| 20. Is TPA facility provided? If | so, whether TPA details are | | |
| 21. Whether details for Pre- | acceptance health | | |
| 22. Whether Reimbursement of | Pre-policy Health Check Up Cost specified. If yes, at | | |
| 23. Whether Cumulative Bonus, | | | |
| 24. Whether Portability | | | |
| 25. Whether AYUSH cover is | provided, if yes, is there any | AYUSH covered YES/NO | Sublimit |
| 26. Whether Option to migrate | to any other Suitable Policy | | |
| 27. Whether 3 Months Notice | provision in case of revision | | |
| 28. Whether details of | possibility of revision/modification of the product in future is specified | | |
| 29. Whether details of | possibility of withdrawal of | | |

| | the product in future is specified | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 30. Whether Any change in | scope of cover after certain duration of the policy / certain age is specified | |
| 31. Whether Procedure for SI | enhancement or change, if any, is specified | |
| 32. Whether Circumstances for | loading the premium or withdrawing discounts are specified | |
| 33. Whether Upfront disclosure | on Incentives for early entry/continued renewals/favourable claims experience etc. Are specified | |
| 34. Whether the general | provisions are clearly stated | |
| 35 Whether method of | calculation of premium in respect of Family Floater disclosed? | |
| VI PROPOSAL FORM | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) |
| 1. Whether an already | approved proposal form is being used. If yes, provide the Unique Reference No. of the same. If no, give details for Q.No.2 to 6 | |
| 2. Whether Nomination with | name & Relationship with insured person is specified | |
| 3. Whether the Proposal Form | contains the declarations as per the standard declaration specified | |
| 4. Whether queries to capture | options/add-ons/ deletions /plans /sections chosen by | |

| | the product in future is | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 30. Whether Any change in | scope of cover after certain duration of the policy / | | |
| 31. Whether Procedure for SI | enhancement or change, if | | |
| 32. Whether Circumstances for | loading the premium or withdrawing discounts are | | |
| 33. Whether Upfront disclosure | on Incentives for early renewals/favourable claims experience etc. Are | | |
| 34. Whether the general | provisions are clearly stated | | |
| 35 Whether method of | calculation of premium in respect of Family Floater | | |
| | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) | Regulation/ Guidelines |
| 1. Whether an already | approved proposal form is being used. If yes, provide the Unique Reference No. If no, give details for Q.No.2 | | |
| 2. Whether Nomination with | name & Relationship with | | |
| 3. Whether the Proposal Form | contains the declarations as per the standard declaration | | |
| 4. Whether queries to capture | options/add-ons/ deletions /plans /sections chosen by | | |

Page

Regulation/ Guidelines

Page

Regulation/ Guidelines

| | the proposer are raised clearly | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 5. Whether KYC details are | provided | |
| 6. Whether AML details are | provided | |
| 7. Whether queries concerned | to various points in line with product design are asked for | |
| 8. Whether Proposal has any | queries extraneous to risk assessment /policy servicing? If yes, give reasons for including the same. | |
| VII. RATE CHART | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) |
| 1. Whether all rates are | provided as per age progression | |
| 2. Whether premium rates | exclusive of service tax are provided | |
| 3. Whether discount/loading | details are provided | |
| VIII. POLICY DOCUMENT | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) |
| A Preamble Whether the preamble | | clause provides clarity |
| B Operational Clauses: | | |
| (i) Whether Standard | Definitions are provided as per the definitions provided in circular on Guidelines on Standardization in Health Insurance and other circulars issued from time to time | (Specify as YES/ NO/ Not Applicable) |
| 1. Accident | | |
| 2. Any one illness | | |

| | the proposer are raised | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5. Whether KYC details are | | | |
| 6. Whether AML details are | | | |
| 7. Whether queries concerned | to various points in line with product design are asked | | |
| 8. Whether Proposal has any | queries extraneous to risk assessment /policy servicing? If yes, give reasons for including the | | |
| | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) | Regulation/ Guidelines |
| 1. Whether all rates are | provided as per age | | |
| 2. Whether premium rates | exclusive of service tax are | | |
| 3. Whether discount/loading | | | |
| | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) | Regulation/ Guidelines |
| A Preamble Whether the preamble | | clause provides clarity | |
| | | | |
| (i) Whether Standard | Definitions are provided as per the definitions provided in circular on Guidelines on Standardization in Health Insurance and other circulars issued from time to | (Specify as YES/ NO/ Not Applicable) | |
| | | | |
| | | | |

Page

Regulation/ Guidelines

| 3. Cashless facility | |
| --- | --- |
| 4. Condition Precedent | |
| 5. Congenital Anomaly | (a) Internal Congenital Anomaly (b) External Congenital Anomaly |
| 6. Co-Payment | |
| 7. Cumulative Bonus | |
| 8. Day care centre | |
| 9. Day Care Treatment | |
| 10. Deductible | |
| 11. Dental Treatment | |
| 12. Disclosure to | information norm |
| 13. Domiciliary | Hospitalization |
| 14. Emergency Care | |
| 15. Grace Period | |
| 16. Hospital | |
| 17. Hospitalization | |
| 18. Illness | (a) Acute Condition (b) Chronic Condition |
| 19. Injury | |
| 20. Inpatient Care | |
| 21. Intensive Care Unit | |
| 22. ICU Charges | |
| 23. Maternity expenses | |
| 24. Medical Advise | |
| 25. Medical expenses | |
| 26. Medical Practitioner | |
| 27. Medically Necessary | |
| 28. Network Provider | |
| 29. New Born Baby | |
| 30. Non- Network | |
| 31. Notification of Claim | |
| 32. OPD treatment | |
| 33. Pre-Existing Disease | |
| 34. Pre hospitalization | Medical Expenses |
| 35. Post hospitalization | Medical Expenses |
| 36. Qualified Nurse | |
| 37. Reasonable and | Customary Charges |

| |
| --- |
| |
| (a) Internal Congenital (b) External Congenital |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| 12. Disclosure to |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| |
| 34. Pre hospitalization |
| 35. Post hospitalization |
| |
| 37. Reasonable and |

| 38. Renewal | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 39. Room rent | | |
| 40. Subrogation | | (Applicable for non-life covers only) |
| 41. Surgery | | |
| 42. Unproven/ | | Experimental treatment |
| (ii) Whether Nomenclature of | CI are provided as per the definitions provided in circular on Guidelines on Standardization in Health Insurance and other circulars issued from time to time | (Specify YES/NO) |
| 1. Cancer of specified | | severity |
| 2 Myocardial Infarction | | |
| 3. Open chest CABG | | |
| 4. Open heart | | replacement or repair of heart valves |
| 5. Coma of specified | | severity |
| 6. Kidney failure requiring | | regular dialysis |
| 7. Stroke resulting in | | permanent symptoms |
| 8. Major organ /bone | | marrow transplant |
| 9. Permanent paralysis of | | limbs |
| 10. Motor neuron disease | | with permanent symptoms |
| 11. Multiple sclerosis with | | persisting symptom |
| 12 Angioplasty | | |
| 13 Benign Brain Tumour | | |
| 14 Blindness | | |
| 15 Deafness | | |
| 16 End Stage Lung | | Failure |

| | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | |
| | | (Applicable for non-life |
| | | |
| | | |
| (ii) Whether Nomenclature of | CI are provided as per the definitions provided in circular on Guidelines on Standardization in Health Insurance and other circulars issued from time to | (Specify YES/NO) |
| 1. Cancer of specified | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 4. Open heart | | replacement or repair |
| 5. Coma of specified | | |
| 6. Kidney failure requiring | | |
| 7. Stroke resulting in | | |
| 8. Major organ /bone | | |
| 9. Permanent paralysis of | | |
| 10. Motor neuron disease | | with permanent |
| 11. Multiple sclerosis with | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 16 End Stage Lung | | |

| 17 End Stage Liver | | Failure |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 18 Loss Of Speech | | |
| 19 Loss Of Limbs | | |
| 20 Major Head Trauma | | |
| 21 Primary (Idiopathic) | | Pulmonary Hypertension |
| 22 Third Degree Burns | | |
| 23 In case any other | | Critical Illnesses are covered, whether the same have been defined. |
| C. Various Other | | Clauses |
| 1 Whether all | Benefits/Optional Covers/Add-ons and Co- Pays/Deductible/Sublimits, if any applicable to the policy are filed in Application Form as per Product Filing Procedure? (No Benefit or Restrictions other than those filed shall be mentioned in Policy Wordings) | |
| 1. Whether Coverage | details/Plans/Sections as applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy Schedule | |
| 2. Whether Optional | Benefits/Add-ons/Deletions as applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy Schedule | |
| 3. Whether Sub-limits/Caps as | applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy Schedule | |

| 17 End Stage Liver | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| 21 Primary (Idiopathic) | | |
| | | |
| 23 In case any other | | Critical Illnesses are covered, whether the same have been |
| C. Various Other | | |
| 1 Whether all | Covers/Add-ons and Co- if any applicable to the policy are filed in Application Form as per (No Benefit or Restrictions other than those filed shall be mentioned in Policy | |
| 1. Whether Coverage | details/Plans/Sections as applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy | |
| 2. Whether Optional | as applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy | |
| 3. Whether Sub-limits/Caps as | applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy | |

| 4. Whether Special Feature if | any as applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or Policy Schedule |
| --- | --- |
| 5. Whether all the exclusions | are specified |
| 6. Whether Contribution is | applied as per extant Regulations? |
| 7. Whether Subrogation, if | applicable, is mentioned (Applicable for non-life covers only) |
| 8. Whether Co-pay, if any are | clearly stated |
| 9. Whether | Deductibles/Excess, if any are clearly stated |
| 10. Whether any package rates | or restrictions thereon are applicable. If yes, whether disclosed in Prospectus and Policy Wordings |
| 11. Whether Loading & | Discount, if any are clearly stated |
| 11. Whetherinstalment | premium is involved |
| 12. If yes, whether any grace | period is provided for payment of instalment premiums. |
| 13. Whether Renewal | Clause(Terms of Renewal) is clearly stated |
| 14. Whether Cancellation | Clause & reasons for cancellation with refunds, if any, are specified |
| 15. Does the document contain | Short Period Rates |
| 16. Whether Waiting Periods | are clearly stated |
| 17. Is Free Look Period | specified and refund of |

| 4. Whether Special Feature if | any as applicable to the policy are specified in the Policy Document and/or |
| --- | --- |
| 5. Whether all the exclusions | |
| 6. Whether Contribution is | applied as per extant |
| 7. Whether Subrogation, if | applicable, is mentioned (Applicable for non-life |
| 8. Whether Co-pay, if any are | |
| | Deductibles/Excess, if any |
| 10. Whether any package rates | disclosed in Prospectus and |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | Clause(Terms of Renewal) |
| 14. Whether Cancellation | Clause & reasons for cancellation with refunds, if |
| 15. Does the document contain | |
| | |
| 17. Is Free Look Period | specified and refund of |

| | premium thereon is per extant Regulations |
| --- | --- |
| 19. Is Grace Period for | Renewal (if applicable) specified |
| 20. Whether Any one illness/ | Relapse Period applicable. If yes, whether disclosed? |
| 21. Is TPA facility provided? If | yes, whether TPA details are specified. |
| 22. Whether Cumulative Bonus, | if any, is provided |
| 23. Whether Portability | provisions are specified |
| 24. Whether AYUSH cover is | provided, if yes, is there any sub-limit |
| 25. Whether Option to migrate | to any other Suitable Policy is provided |
| 26. Whether Any change in | scope of cover after certain duration of the policy / certain age is specified |
| 27. Whether Procedure for SI | enhancement or change, if any, is specified |
| 28. Whether details of | possibility of revision/ modification of the product in future is specified |
| 29. Whether 3 Months Notice | provision in case of revision is clearly stated |
| 30 Whether the clause of no | loading on renewals on Individual claims experience basis is stated |
| 31. Whether Grievance | redressal details including senior citizens separately are provided |
| 32. Whether Cashless Facility | available. If yes, provide information on Q.No. 31 & |

| | premium thereon is per |
| --- | --- |
| 19. Is Grace Period for | Renewal (if applicable) |
| | Relapse Period applicable. |
| | |
| 22. Whether Cumulative Bonus, | |
| 23. Whether Portability | |
| 24. Whether AYUSH cover is | provided, if yes, is there any |
| 25. Whether Option to migrate | to any other Suitable Policy |
| | scope of cover after certain |
| 27. Whether Procedure for SI | enhancement or change, if |
| 28. Whether details of | possibility of revision/ modification of the product |
| 29. Whether 3 Months Notice | provision in case of revision |
| 30 Whether the clause of no | loading on renewals on Individual claims |
| 31. Whether Grievance | redressal details including senior citizens separately |
| 32. Whether Cashless Facility | available. If yes, provide information on Q.No. 31 & |

| | 32 |
| --- | --- |
| 33. Whether Details of Net- | work hospitals is provided |
| 34. Whether Details of black | listed hospitals is provided |
| 35. Whether the list of excluded | items is attached with the Policy Document, if applicable |
| 36. Whether the Policy | Wordings are in simple & plain language and easy to understand |
| D Claim Documents (Type | of claim wise) |
| 1. Whether documents | required for insurance claim is specified and if so whether condonation of delay is stated |
| 2. Whether timelines for | intimation of claim and submission of Claim documents clearly specified |
| 3. Is there a provision to | condone delay in intimation of Claim for genuine reasons? |
| 4. Whether all ‘necessary | documents’ for claim clearly specified. (No unnamed document can be mentioned under ‘necessary documents’) |
| 5. Whether PM Report (if | applicable) is asked only if conducted |
| 6. Whether 30 days claim | settlement period is specified and whether payment of penal interest in case of delay is stated |
| E Specific Information for | CI Policy: |
| 1. Whether Survival Period, if | any, is provided |

| | |
| --- | --- |
| 33. Whether Details of Net- | |
| 34. Whether Details of black | |
| 35. Whether the list of excluded | items is attached with the Policy Document, if |
| 36. Whether the Policy | Wordings are in simple & plain language and easy to |
| D Claim Documents (Type | |
| 1. Whether documents | required for insurance claim is specified and if so whether condonation of |
| 2. Whether timelines for | intimation of claim and submission of Claim documents clearly specified |
| 3. Is there a provision to | condone delay in intimation of Claim for genuine |
| 4. Whether all ‘necessary | documents’ for claim clearly specified. (No unnamed document can be mentioned under |
| 5. Whether PM Report (if | applicable) is asked only if |
| 6. Whether 30 days claim | settlement period is specified and whether payment of penal interest in |
| E Specific Information for | |
| 1. Whether Survival Period, if | |

| 2. Does the cover cease on | payment of a claim |
| --- | --- |
| 3. Can the insured renew the | policy once a particular critical illness is paid |
| F Micro Insurance (Refer | MIR, 2015) |
| 1 Is the SI is within the limits | prescribed under MI Regulations |
| 2 Whether a detailed write- | up about the policy details provided in relevant vernacular language |
| 3 Is Caption of Micro | Insurance prominent and included in the name of the product. |
| 4 Whether Commission to MI | Agents is as per applicable Regulations |
| 5 Whether all Operational | aspects as per extant Micro Insurance Regulations are complied |
| G PolicySchedule | |
| 1. Whether Intermediary | details are captured |
| | Whether Period of Insurance (including Time) is captured |
| | Whether Nominee Name & Relationship with insured is captured |
| 6. Whether Cover Details | including sections/plans are captured |
| 7. Whether Add-ons/Optional | Covers/Deletions are captured |
| 8. Whether Endorsements, if | any, are captured |
| 9. Whether Coinsurance | details, if any, are provided |

| 2. Does the cover cease on | |
| --- | --- |
| 3. Can the insured renew the | policy once a particular |
| F Micro Insurance (Refer | |
| 1 Is the SI is within the limits | prescribed under MI |
| 2 Whether a detailed write- | up about the policy details provided in relevant |
| 3 Is Caption of Micro | Insurance prominent and included in the name of the |
| 4 Whether Commission to MI | Agents is as per applicable |
| 5 Whether all Operational | aspects as per extant Micro Insurance Regulations are |
| | |
| 1. Whether Intermediary | |
| | Whether Period of Insurance (including Time) |
| | Whether Nominee Name & Relationship with insured is |
| 6. Whether Cover Details | including sections/plans are |
| 7. Whether Add-ons/Optional | Covers/Deletions are |
| 8. Whether Endorsements, if | |
| 9. Whether Coinsurance | |

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Page 103 of 110 

Page

Regulation/ Guidelines

| 10. Whether premium details | are provided | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 11. Whether loadings & | discounts are provided | | |
| 12. Whether service tax is | provided separately | | |
| 13. Whether stamp duty is | captured | | |
| 14. Whether all insured details | are captured | | |
| 15. Whether list of attachments | is captured | | |
| H Endorsement Wordings | | | |
| 1 Whether type of | endorsements wordings are provided | | |
| IX. CLAIM MANUAL | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | | (with comments, if any) |
| 1 Whether the guidelines for | processing of claims are specifically provided | - In house - TPA | |
| X ACTUARY REPORT/TECHNICAL NOTE | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | | (with comments, if any) |
| 1. Whether Technical | Note/Pricing Approach duly signed by Appointed Actuary | | |
| 2. Whether Complete Pricing | Details including methodology adopted to arrive at the premium, together with data sources utilized are provided | | |
| 3. Whether Assumptions made | shall include the expected claim frequency and claim severities across age bands, expected expenses, lapse | | |

| 10. Whether premium details | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 11. Whether loadings & | | | |
| 12. Whether service tax is | | | |
| 13. Whether stamp duty is | | | |
| 14. Whether all insured details | | | |
| 15. Whether list of attachments | | | |
| | | | |
| 1 Whether type of | endorsements wordings are | | |
| | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) | Regulation/ Guidelines |
| 1 Whether the guidelines for | processing of claims are | | |
| X ACTUARY REPORT/TECHNICAL NOTE | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) | Regulation/ Guidelines |
| 1. Whether Technical | Note/Pricing Approach duly signed by Appointed | | |
| 2. Whether Complete Pricing | Details including methodology adopted to arrive at the premium, together with data sources | | |
| 3. Whether Assumptions made | shall include the expected claim frequency and claim severities across age bands, expected expenses, lapse | | |

Page

Regulation/ Guidelines

| | rates etc. are provided | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4. Whether Specific loadings & | discounts, if any, allowed are provided | |
| 5. Whether The profit margin | at various model points or the expected loss ratio and the expected combined ratio across various model points across the entire portfolio are provided | |
| 6. Whether the U/W capacity | required for the product and the actual capacity available with the insurer is provided | |
| 7. Whether The retention | capacity to manage the business is provided | |
| 8. Whether Internal Capacity | Building measures, if any, required to offer the proposed product are provided | |
| 9. Whether other relevant | metric, if any, is specified | |
| 10. Whether Expected claim | ratio & Combined ratio (if applicable) and profit margin is provided | |
| XII FOR REVISION: Not Applicable for New products | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) |
| 1. If change in terms/covers is | proposed, whether all such changes are mentioned with justifications? | |
| 2. If change in pricing is | proposed, whether the filing made as per the Product Filing Guidelines and justification for price revision is provided | |
| 3. Whether Claims experience | for 3 immediate preceding years compared to the expected experience duly | |

| | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4. Whether Specific loadings & | discounts, if any, allowed | | |
| 5. Whether The profit margin | at various model points or the expected loss ratio and the expected combined ratio across various model points across the entire portfolio | | |
| 6. Whether the U/W capacity | required for the product and the actual capacity available | | |
| 7. Whether The retention | capacity to manage the | | |
| 8. Whether Internal Capacity | Building measures, if any, required to offer the proposed product are | | |
| 9. Whether other relevant | | | |
| 10. Whether Expected claim | ratio & Combined ratio (if applicable) and profit margin | | |
| XII FOR REVISION: Not Applicable for New products | | | |
| | Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable | (with comments, if any) | Regulation/ Guidelines |
| 1. If change in terms/covers is | proposed, whether all such changes are mentioned with | | |
| 2. If change in pricing is | proposed, whether the filing made as per the Product Filing Guidelines and justification for price revision | | |
| 3. Whether Claims experience | for 3 immediate preceding years compared to the expected experience duly | | |

Page

Regulation/ Guidelines

| | explaining the variations, and the experience of similar products provided |
| --- | --- |
| 4. Whether the expected | claims experience, The assumptions underlying the proposed pricing along with expected COR and profit margin provided |

| | explaining the variations, and the experience of |
| --- | --- |
| 4. Whether the expected | claims experience, The assumptions underlying the proposed pricing along with expected COR and profit |

5. Following details to be provided:

i) Provisions/terms existing but modified in the proposed revision with change / no change in

Reasons

pricing S. 
No. 

Existing Provision s/terms

Proposed revised provisions/ terms

I I I I I ii) Provisions/terms existing but deleted in the proposed revision with change/no change in pricing

S. 
No. 

Existing Provisions/terms

Reasons for deletion

I I I I iii) Provisions/terms not existing but proposed to incorporate in the

Reasons

proposed revision S. 
No. 

Provisions/terms as proposed to incorporate in proposed revision

I I I I

Reasons

Existing Premiu m

Revise d Premiu m

iv) Change in price S . N o.

(+)/(-) percentage changes as compared to the existing price

| 6. Date of the original product | clearance |
| --- | --- |
| 7. Date of last revision | |

| 6. Date of the original product |
| --- |
| |

XIII Any Other Details

XIV. CERTIFICATION The undersigned, on behalf of the Insurer named below, hereby affirms and declares as follows:

1. That the details of the (Name of product) filled in above are 
true and correct and reflect what the policy and other documents indicate. 
2. That the product complies with the various provisions of the IRDAI Health 
Insurance Regulations, 2016, Product Filing Procedure and the 
Standardisation Guidelines in Health Insurance, 2016 and the applicable 
provisions of Regulations notified by the Authority and the applicable circulars 
and Guidelines issued by IRDAI from time to time. 
3. That the File and Use application and all other documents are complete and 
have been verified for correctness and consistency not only in respect of each 
item of each document but also vis-a-vis one another. 
4. That the copy of the Proposal Form will be attached with the Policy and 
supplied to the proposer. 
5. In addition to the above four points, the following is APPLICABLE FOR LIFE 
INSURERS ONLY: 
That the product complies with IRDA (Linked Insurance Products) 
Regulations 2013 / IRDA (Non-Linked Insurance Products) 
Regulations 2013 (strike-off whichever is not applicable) 

Date: (Chief Compliance Officer) Name of Insurer

Note to Chief Compliance Officer: (1) Information in the Product Filing Check-List cum Certification shall be examined with due reference to the extant Regulations / Guidelines issued by the Authority and be furnished. (2) Regulation / Guidelines Reference number shall be mentioned in the relevant column (3) Page number of the respective document shall be mentioned in the relevant column.

Page 108 of 110

Annexure - 8

FORM: IRDAI-GHIS Information on Government Sponsored Health Insurance Schemes offered by Life or Health or Non-Life Insurers Annual Return Note: (i) Information to be furnished for the financial year within 60 days from the close of every FY. (ii) Information to be furnished separately for each insurance product in the same format. Name of the Insurer: Name of the Insurance Product: UIN of the Insurance Product: Financial Year:

TABLE - 1

Geographi cal Unit (District/St ate /UT)**

Date of award of tender or Date of launch of the Scheme

No. of Policies sold during the year

No. of Persons Covered

Premium per Person (Rs.)

Total 
Premium 
received 
(Rs.) 

No. of Claims settled during the year

Total amount of claims settled

*ICR (%) Assumed ICR (%) as per the filing made with IRDAI

Reasons, if any for deviation

CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY

Total for 
the 
product 
Note: * ICR to be furnished for each Financial Year (CY-Current Year, PY-Previous Year) 
**Please specify the Geographical Unit as per award of tender for the scheme, wherever applicable. 
Date: Signature of Chief Compliance Officer 
Place: 

Office seal

Page 109 of 110

Annexure - 9

FORM: IRDAI – GHISAR Data on Group Health Insurance Schemes offered by Health or General Insurers Annual Return (Financial Year-wise & Policy Year-wise) Note: (i) Information to be furnished for every completed financial year within 60 days from the end of every FY. (ii) Information to be furnished separately for each group insurance product in the same format. (iii) Information in respect of Table – 2 shall be furnished in respect of all group policies whose policy years are completed in the Financial Year in respect of which the information is reported. Name of the Insurer: Name of the Product: UIN: Financial Year:

TABLE -1

S.No Name of the Master Policyholder

Policy No. Policy Period No. of Persons Covered

Premium per Person (Rs.)

Total Premium received (Rs.)

No. of Claims settled during the year

Total amount of claims settled

ICR (%) Assumed ICR (%)

Actuarial Justification for deviation in ICR, if any

CY PY From To CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY

Policy Year-wise:

TABLE- 2

S.No Name of the Master Policyholder

Policy No. Policy Period No. of Persons Covered

Premium per Person (Rs.)

Total Premium received (Rs.)

No. of Claims settled during the year

Total amount of claims settled

ICR (%) Assumed ICR (%)

Actuarial Justification for deviation in ICR, if any

CY PY From To CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY

Date: Name & Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer Place: Office Seal

Annexure - 10

FORM: IRDAI – HIPP Health Insurance Pilot Products offered by Health or General Insurers Annual Return Note: (i) Information to be furnished for every completed financial year within 60 days from the close of every FY. (ii) Information to be furnished separately for each Health Insurance Pilot Product in the same format. (iii) In respect of TABLE – 1, Information to be submitted separately for Individual and Group Products in the same format for all Financial Years since launch of product. (iv) Information in respect of Table – 2 shall be additionally furnished in respect of all Policies issued under Group Health Insurance Pilot Products for each completed policy year since issue of first policy to the group. Name of the Insurer: Name of the Pilot Product: UIN: Financial Year:

TABLE-1

| FY No. of Policies | No. of Persons Total Premium No. of | Total amount ICR (%) Assumed | Actuarial |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| sold | Claims paid Covered received (Rs.) | of claims | ICR (%) Justification |
| | during the | paid (INR) | for |
| | year | | deviation in |

ICR, if any

Policy Year-wise (only for Group Pilot Products) data to be separately furnished for all Completed Policy Years: TABLE-2

Premium per Person (Rs.)

Policy No. Policy Period No. of Persons Covered

ICR (%) Assumed ICR (%)

Pol Year

Name of the Master Policyholder

Total amount of claims paid

No. of Claims paid during the year

Total 
Premium 
received 
(Rs.) 

Actuarial Justification for deviation in ICR, if any

From To

I

Date: Name & Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer Place: Office Seal

Page 110 of 110

