Is your insurance company 
listening to you?
If your complaints have not been addressed 
by your insurance company,
please contact 
to register your complaints and track their status
or you may email us at complaints@irda.gov.in 
Handbook on
Property Insurance
IRDA Grievance Call Centre 
A public awareness initiative by 
.tt1'l fclf.tq,qcfi ~~~ 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY Promoting Insurance Protecting tnsuf'f/ld 
www.irda.gov.in 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
~~ 
~ J}fm Bemfsafft 
-
Contents:
1. About this handbook1
2. Property Insurance2
3. Frequently asked questions9
4. Policyholder Servicing TATs 18
5. If you have a grievance 19
1. About this handbook
This handbook is designed by the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority (IRDA) as a guide on 
Property Insurance and gives general information only. 
No information given herein replaces or overrides the 
terms and conditions of an insurance policy. 
Please approach a duly licensed agent or a broker or an 
insurance company registered with IRDA for specific 
information regarding a policy or for any other 
additional information. 
1
2
3
2. Property Insurance
Insurance of property means insurance of buildings, 
machinery, stocks etc against Fire and Allied Perils, 
Burglary Risks and so on. Goods in transit via Sea, 
Air, Railways, Roads and Courier can be insured 
under Marine Cargo Insurance. Hulls of ship and 
boats can be insured under Marine Hull Insurance. Further, there are specialized policies available such 
as Aviation Insurance Policy for insurance of planes 
and helicopters. Thus Property Insurance is a very 
vast category of General Insurance and the type of 
cover that you need depends upon the type of 
property you are seeking to cover. 
•Package or Umbrella policies
There are package or umbrella covers available 
which give, under a single document, a combination 
of covers. For instance there are covers such as 
Householders Policy, Shopkeepers Policy, Office 
Package policy etc that, under one policy, seek to 
cover various physical assets including buildings, 
contents etc. Such policies, apart from seeking to 
cover property may also include certain personal 
lines or liability covers. Make sure you understand 
the complete details of cover and exclusions 
contained in the policy you are considering. Package 
or Umbrella covers could have common terms and 
conditions for all sections as also specific terms for 
specific sections of the policy.
•Fire Insurance
The most popular property insurance is the standard 
fire insurance policy. The fire insurance policy offers 
protection against any unforeseen loss or damage 
to/destruction of property due to fire or other perils 
covered under the policy. The different types of 
property that could be covered under a fire insurance 
policy are dwellings, offices, shops, hospitals, places o f wo rs h i p e t c a n d t h e ir c o n t e n ts;
industrial/manufacturing risks and contents such as 
machinery, plants, equipment and accessories; goods 
including raw material, material in process, semifinished goods, finished goods, packing materials etc 
in factories, godowns and in the open; utilities located outside industrial/manufacturing risks;
storage risks outside the compound of industrial 
risks; tank farms/gas holders located outside the 
compound of industrial risks etc.
What a Fire Policy covers:
Thought it is called ‘Fire Insurance’, apart from the 
risk of fire, it also offers cover against lightning, explosion/implosion, aircraft damage, riot, strike and 
4
5
maliciousdamage,storm,cyclone,typhoon,
hurricane, flood and inundation, impact damage, subsidence and landslide including rockslide, bursting and/or overflowing of water tanks,
apparatus and pipes, missile testing operations, accidental leakage from automatic sprinkler
installations, bush fire etc.
What a Fire Policy excludes:
A fire insurance policy usually does not cover a 
certain amount known as “excess” under the policy. 
Loss or damage caused by war and warlike operations, nuclear perils, pollution or
contamination, electrical/mechanical breakdown, 
burglary and housebreaking are excluded. Certain 
perils like earthquake, spontaneous combustion etc 
can be covered on payment of additional premium. Fire insurance policies are issued for one year except 
for dwellings, where a policy may be issued for long 
term (with a minimum period of three years). 
• Burlary Insurance
A Burglary Insurance policy may be offered for a 
business enterprise or for a house. The policy covers 
property contained in the premises including 
stocks/goods owned or held in trust if specifically 
covered . It also covers cash, valuables, securities kept in a locked safe or cash box in locked steel 
cupboard if you specifically request for it.
Apart from offering cover for the contents in the 
premises, a Burglary Insurance policy covers damage 
to your house or premises caused by burglars during 
burglary or attempts at burglary. The Policy pays 
actual loss/damage to your insured property caused 
by burglary/house breaking subject to the limit of 
Sum Insured. If Sum Insured is not adequate, Policy 
pays only proportionate loss. Hence, you must 
ensure that you value the property covered correctly 
to ensure that there is no underinsurance.
A Burglary Insurance Policy can generally be 
extended to cover Riot, Strike, Malicious Damage 
and Theft. 
What is not covered in a Burglary Insurance Policy: 
Generally, the Policy will not pay for loss/damage to 
goods held in trust/commission unless specifically 
covered, jewellery, curios, title deeds, business books 
unless specifically insured; any amount that is 
recoverable under Fire/Plate glass insurance policy; 
loss from a safe using a key or duplicate key, unless it 
6
7
is obtained by violence or threat; Due to shop lifting, 
acts involving you/your family members/ your 
employees; due to War perils, Riot & Strike ( 
covered by payment of additional premium), Acts of 
God, Nuclear perils
• All Risks Insurance
All Risks Insurance generally offers cover for 
jewellery and/or portable equipment etc. This cover 
is generally offered selectively. The design of the 
policy may vary from company to company. It is 
important to note that an All Risks policy is not free 
from exclusions. So, the term “All Risks” doesn’t 
mean that anything and everything is covered. 
What is generally excluded in All Risks 
Insurance:
Lookout for the exclusions—generally actions of 
moth, vermin, mildew, wear and tear or repairs, 
dyeing or bleaching or any gradually operating 
cause, Mere breaking/ scratching or cracking of 
fragile items unless caused by accident to the means 
of conveyance and Any mechanical or electrical 
breakdown/derangement except due to accidental 
external means, Over winding, denting or internal 
damage to watches or clocks Thefts from cars except 
fully closed saloons Consequential losses, any legal 
liability, War perils, nuclear risks, any government/ 
local authority action and Any loss due to insured's 
action which has contributed to increase in risk are excluded from the scope of the policy.
On payment of additional premium mechanical and/ 
or electrical/ electronic breakdown extension may 
be offered.
• Marine Cargo Insurance
Marine Cargo Insurance covers transits by Water, 
Air, Road or Rail, Registered Post Parcel, Courier 
or a combination of two or more of these.
Who can take a Marine Cargo Insurance Policy: 
Buyers, Sellers, Import/Export merchants, Buying 
Agents, Contractors and Banks etc.
Marine Cargo Policies cover the interest in the cargo 
and also extend to cover the interests of any third 
party who has acquired interest upon transfer of 
ownership, as determined by the Terms of Sale.
How Marine Cargo Insurance helps:
Cargo can be damaged on exposure to a wide variety 
of risks, including an accident of the vehicle carrying 
the cargo, damage due to jolts, jerks etc. Decide 
8 9
whether you want to take a Basic Cover or a wider 
cover. Read and understand the terms and
conditions of the policy. Check whether there are 
any ‘Deductibles’. .
What is generally excluded in a Marine Cargo 
Insurance Policy: 
Loss or damage due to Inherent Vice , Delay, 
Insufficiency of packing, loss or damage due to 
financial default or insolvency of the ship owner etc.
What are the other types of property insurance 
available?
Some of the other property insurances available are 
engineering insurance policies like the Electronic 
Equipment Insurance, Machinery Breakdown
insurance etc.
3. FAQs on Property Insurance
Q. What are the requirements to purchase a 
property insurance policy? 
A. The proposer of the policy should first and foremost 
have an interest in the assets being proposed for 
insurance, i.e. he/she should stand to lose
financially in the event of loss or damage to such 
assets. Secondly, the proposer should submit a 
proposal form (which can be obtained at any 
insurer’s website or office). The proposal form 
should disclose all details, which are true to the 
insured’s best knowledge and other information, 
which the proposer may feel is relevant. 
Q. What are the different types of Property 
Insurance Policies? 
A. The most popular is the Standard Fire & Allied 
Perils Policies which covers most of the perils the 
property is exposed to like fire, riots, flood, and 
storm. Loss of current assets due to burglary and 
theft can be covered under Burglary & House 
Breaking Insurance Policy. Valuables can be 
covered under All Risks Policies and there are 
10 11 package policies for house owners and
shopkeepers. 
Q. How does one fix the sum insured? 
A. Generally, there are two methods. One is Market Value ( MV) and the other is Reinstatement Value 
(RIV). In the case of M.V, in the event of a loss, 
depreciation is levied on the asset depending on its 
age. Under this method, the insured is not paid 
amount sufficient to buy the replacement.
In the RIV method, the Insurance Co. will pay the 
cost of replacement subject to ceiling of S.I. Under 
this method, no depreciation is levied. One 
condition is that the damaged asset should be 
repaired / replaced in order to get the claim. It may 
be noted that RIV method is allowed only for 
FIXED ASSETS and not for other assets like stocks 
and stocks in process.
Q. What will be the cost of a fire insurance policy? 
A. The cost of a fire insurance policy or the Premium 
can depend on the 
• Perils to be covered 
• The value of the items covered 
• The usage of the premises proposed for 
insurance 
• The location details of the premises proposed 
for insurance etc. 
• The construction of building and occupancy Consequent to de-tariffing of the non
-life
insurance segment (except Motor Third Party 
Insurance where premium rates are laid down by 
the IRDA) , premium rates charged by each insurer 
may differ. However, they should have been filed 
with the IRDA under the File & Use procedure.
Q. How does one arrive at the value of assets in 
Dwellings or Offices or Industries? 
A. Other than dwellings, industrial units or offices will 
maintain books of accounts showing therein value 
of assets, therefore it will not be any problem in 
arriving at the sum insured. In case of dwellings, 
one should take stock of assets under broad 
categories like furniture & fixture, clothing, Bed 
linen, kitchen equipment, electronic gadgets etc 
and arrive at the sum insured. 
Q. Why should I insure my Building? Fire can’t 
possibly do any harm to the building. 
A. Fire and other perils (normally covered under a fire 
insurance policy) can cause loss / damage to 
12 13
buildings. There have been fire accidents that 
have completely destroyed multi-storied buildings. 
Floods can also bring about devastating losses. 
Similarly, Riots, Acts of Terrorism can also produce 
huge losses to human lives as well as property. 
 
Q. Can I ask for cancellation of policy mid-term? 
Will I get any premium refund? 
A. Yes.
At Insured’s option: Retention of premium on 
short period scale and balance if any, will be 
refunded. 
At Insurer’s option: Pro-rate refund of premium 
will be given. 
Q. In case of loss, what are the obligations of the 
insured? 
A. Every insured is expected to behave as though he is 
uninsured. Take all precautions to prevent / 
aggravate the loss. Inform Insurance Company 
who have to be given an opportunity to inspect the 
damages. Inform fire brigade who will assist to put 
out the fire. During fire fighting, any damage 
caused to other insured property caused by water, 
will be paid by Insurance Company. Extend 
cooperation to surveyor while inspecting and 
assessing the loss. If arrival of surveyor is likely to be 
delayed, then, take photos / and shift unaffected 
assets to a place of safety. Give completed claim 
form and documents as required by Insurer, in 
support of your claim. After repairs / replacement, 
submit bills to Insurer. 
Q. If I insure for a higher value, will I get a higher 
claim amount? 
A. No. When you apply for a fire insurance policy, the 
current market value of the property or the 
Reinstatement value of the property, depending 
upon the basis of the Sum Insured, should be 
accurately calculated for arriving at the correct 
amount to be insured. The compensation payable 
when a covered loss or damage occurs shall be 
based onwhether or not the property has been 
insured adequately. If the amount insured is 
excessive, it will mean overpayment of unnecessary 
premium; if the amount insured is inadequate you 
will receive amounts in proportion to the market 
value only.
Q. Can items like jewellery, ornaments and art 
works be covered by the general fire insurance 
14 15
policy? 
A. Unless prior consent has been given by the Insurer, 
general fire insurance policy does not cover items like jewellery ornaments, art works, scripts, documentary information, computer system
information, shares and stocks, cash. These can be covered on specific request and subject to
valuation where necessary. 
Q. I have taken an insurance policy covering my 
building. My Bank which has financed my 
business has also taken insurance separately. 
Both policies are in force covering same 
property. What happens in the event of a claim?
A. In the event of a claim, each insurer will pay the loss 
amount in proportion to the Sum Insured under 
their respective policies, in accordance with the 
principle of contribution. The object of the 
principle of indemnity is to place the insured in the 
same place as he occupied prior to occurrence. 
Insured is prevented from making claim for full 
amount of loss under each policy. Insurance 
company indemnifies the insured only to the extent of actual loss suffered subject to
depreciation, policy excess etc., and not permit to 
make profit out of a loss. 
Q. What is the relevance of Salvage? 
A. In case of claims under various types of insurance 
policies, the partly damaged goods or the wreck of a 
car or any machinery or any other property settled 
on Total Loss Basis is known as “Salvage”. After 
settling the claim for the full amount the salvage 
becomes the property of insurance company. 
Generallyt the job of salvage disposal is entrusted 
by the insurance company to the surveyor who carried out the loss assessment, subject to
observance of procedure for salvage disposal.The 
amount realized through salvage disposal will be 
set off by insurer against losses paid by them.
Q. I want to cover my goods against transit risk. 
What policy do I take?
A. The Marine Cargo policy offers cover for goods 
against transit risks. You can take this policy if you 
are, for instance, transporting your household 
goods from one place to another. You may either 
opt for a ‘Basic Cover’ or for an ‘All Risks’ one. The 
latter offers a wider scope of coverage. Please read 
the terms and conditions of the policy to 
understand what you are buying.
16 17
Q. Who has to arrange for Marine Cargo insurancethe buyer or the seller? Or do both need some 
protection?
A. This depends on the Sale Contract the two enter 
into. For each Sale Term such as Free on Board 
(FOB), Cost and Freight (C&F), Cost Insurance 
and Freight (CIF) etc, the responsibility for 
arranging for insurance varies.
Q. I need to cover my jewellery. What policy should 
I take?
A. Insurers offer ‘All Risks’ policy for covering 
jewellery. You must ensure that your jewellery is 
valued correctly and you are able to show proof of 
valuation should a claim occur. An All Risks policy 
also has exclusions, so go through the terms and 
conditions thoroughly.
Q. I want to cover my household goods against 
burglary when I am away. Can I get a burglary 
insurance policy?
A. A burglary insurance policy covers goods against 
the risk of burglary. A burglary insurance policy 
may also offer extension of cover against theft. A 
burglary insurance policy will usually cease to 
operate if the house is not occupied beyond a 
certain defined period unless you have intimated 
the insurance company and they specifically agree 
to extend the cover even when the house is not 
occupied. It’s a good idea to ensure that you have a 
burglary policy always rather than opting for one 
only when you are away. You might not get one if 
you want to insure the contents only when the 
house is locked.
Policyholder Servicing Turnaround Times 
as prescribed by IRDA
5. If you have a grievance:
The Consumer Affairs Department of the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) has 
introduced the Integrated Grievance Management 
System (IGMS) which is an online system for 
registration and tracking of grievances. You must 
register your grievance first with the insurance 
company and in case you are not satisfied with its 
disposal by the company, you may escalate it to IRDA 
through IGMS by accessing www.igms.irda.gov.in. 
In case you are not able to access the insurer’s grievance 
system directly, IGMS also provides you a gateway to 
register your grievance with the insurer.
Apart from registering your grievance through IGMS 
(i.e., web), you have several channels for grievance 
registration - through e-mail (complaints@irda.gov.in),
through letter ( address your letter to Consumer Affairs 
Department, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, 3rd Floor, Parishram Bhavan, Basheerbagh, 
Hyderabad:4) or simply call IRDA Call Centre at Toll Free 155255 through which IRDA shall, free of cost, register your complaints against insurance
companies as well as help track its status. The Call 
Centre assists by filling up the complaints form on the 
basis of the call. Wherever required, it will facilitate in 
Service Maximum Turn Around Time
General
Life Insurance
General Insurance
Grievances
Processing of Proposal and Communication 
of decisions including requirements/issue 
of Policy /Cancellations
Obtaining copy of the proposal 30 days Post Policy issue service requests concerning 10 days
mistakes/refund of proposal deposit and 
also Non-Claim related service requests
Surrender value/annuity/pension processing 10 days
Maturity claim/Survival benefit/penal 15 days
interest not paid
Raising claim requirements after lodging 15 days
the Claim
Death claim settlement without 30 days
Investigation requirement
Death claim settlement/repudiation 6 months
with Investigation requirement
Survey report submission 30 days
Insurer seeking addendum report 15 days
Settlement/rejection of Claim after receiving 30 days
first/addendum survey report Acknowledge a grievance 3 days
Resolve a grievance 15 days
15 days
18 19
filing of complaints directly with the insurance 
companies as the first port of call by giving information 
relating to the address, telephone number, website 
details, contact number, e-mail id etc of the insurance 
company. IRDA Call Centre offers a true alternative 
channel for prospects and policyholders, with
comprehensive tele-functionalities, serving as a 12 
hours x 6 days service platform from 8 AM to 8 PM, 
Monday to Saturday in Hindi, English and various 
Indian languages.
When a complaint is registered with IRDA, it facilitates 
resolution by taking it up with the insurance company. 
The company is given 15 days time to resolve the 
complaint. If required, IRDA carries out investigations 
and enquiries. Further, wherever applicable, IRDA 
advises the complainant to approach the Insurance 
Ombudsman in terms of the Redressal of Public 
Grievances Rules, 1998.
Disclaimer:
This handbook is intended to provide you general information only 
and is not exhaustive. It is an education initiative and does not seek 
to give you any legal advice.
20