~u nfl4 itiu Pc1Pt41'1cfi afu: mffi 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
ir.iai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
Ref: IRDAI/HL T/REG/CIR/ llJ /09/2019 
2ih Sept~mber, 2019 
Guidelines on Standardization of Exclusions in Health Insurance Contracts 
/ 
I 
Chapter 
I 
II 
111 
IV 
V 
VI 
INDEX 
Item Page No. 
Objective; Applicability; Legal and other provision, Definitions 2-4 
Exclusions not allowed in Health Insurance Policies 5 
Standard Wordings for some of the exclusions in Health Insurance 6-9 
Policies Diseases allowed to be permanently excluded 10-,14 
Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies 15 
Other guidelines related to exclusions 16-17 
Page 1 of 17 
ifcf ;t. 115/1, • .-ii,FHll-11:S I, ~-500 032, Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad-500 032, India 
(5) : +91 -40-2020 4000,~ : +91 -40-2020 4555 (5) : +91 -40-2020 4000, Fax : +91-40-2020 4555 
fflW : www.irdai.gov.in Website : www.irdai.gov.in 
GENERAL - Chapter - I 
1. OBJECTIVE: 
The objective of these Guidelines are to rationalise and standardize the exclusions in 
health Insurance Contracts that every Insurer shall comply with. Health Insurance has undergone various changes and improvements over the years. The Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Health Insurance) Regulations as well 
as the TPA (Third Party Administrators) Regulations have brought in standardization of 
various definitions / formats in the health insurance industry to promote uniformity 
keeping the customer in focus. The health insurance industry is keeping pace with the 
advancements in technologies that are taking place in the healthcare industry. With the 
increase in number of health insurance companies as well as health insurance products 
in the market, it has been desired that the health insurance industry adopts a uniform 
approach while incorporating exclusions in the health insurance products. In order to 
have a holistic and structured approach in devising appropriate guidelines, IRDAI, 
constituted a Working Group vide order Ref: IRDAI/HLT/ORD/Misc/113/07/2018 dated 
24th July, 2018 to review the extant practices and make appropriate recommendations 
to meet the above objective. Report of the Working Group was published in IRDAI 
website on 02/11/2018. 
2. APPLICABILITY: 
These Guidelines are applicable to all General and Health Insurers offering indemnity 
based health insurance (excluding PA and Domestic/ Overseas Travel) policies offering 
hospitalisation, domiciliary hospitalisation and day care treatment. 
3. LEGAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS: 
3.1 These guidelines are issued under the provisions of Section 34 (1) of Insurance 
Act, 1938 and Section 14 (2) (e) of the IRDAI Act 1999. 
3.2 In order to enhance the health insurance coverage that is granted at the time of 
issuing a policy it is considered important to rationalise the exclusions that were hitherto 
prevalent in the health insurance policy contracts issued by all Insurers. Certain 
exclusions are prohibited to be incorporated in the health insurance policy contracts. 
Standardization of wordings of certain exclusions that are incorporated in the Health 
Insurance Contracts is also considered important to ensure uniformity across the 
industry. In order to enable the individuals that are suffering with any existing diseases 
get the health insurance coverage excluding the coverage to such existing disease, it is 
considered essential to let the Insurers accept such risks, subject to underwriting policy 
of the respective insurers, by permanently excluding the coverage to such existing 
diseases or illnesses. 
Page 2 of 17 
3.3 Accordingly, these Guidelines are issued specifying (i) the exclusions that are not 
allowed in the Health Insurance Policies, (ii) Standard Wordings of some of the 
exclusions (iii) Existing Diseases that may be permanently excluded (iv) Modern 
Treatment Methods that shall be covered (v) Other Norms on Exclusions. 
3.4 Exclusions not allowed in Health Insurance Policies are prescribed in Chapter II 
of these Guidelines. No Insurer shall incorporate any exclusion specified under this 
chapter as part of any of the Health Insurance Products. No exclusion that may 
potentially circumvent these exclusions is allowed in Health Insurance Products. 
3.5 Standard Wordings of some of the exclusions that are prevalent in Health 
Insurance Policies are prescribed in Chapter Ill of these Guidelines. While every Insurer 
may endeavour to minimise the number of exclusions to enhance availability of health 
insurance coverage, where insurers prefer to incorporate these exclusions, they shall incorporate the same wordings in-verbatim in the policy contracts as prescribed in this 
chapter. 
3.6 Existing Diseases allowed to be permanently excluded are prescribed in Chapter 
IV of these Guidelines. Every insurer may endeavour to extend health insurance 
coverage to all the persons to be insured who disclosed pre-existing disease at the 
point of underwriting in accordance to Regulation (8) of IRDAI (Health Insurance) 
Regulations, 2016. Insurers while granting health insurance coverage to the persons 
with the existing diseases referred in Chapter IV may levy suitable health loading based 
on objective criteria as laid down in the board approved underwriting policy. Where 
underwriting policy of the Insurer does not enable the Insurer to offer the Health 
Insurance Coverage for the given existing disease disclosed even after levying the 
loading, Insurers are allowed to permanently exclude the Health Insurance coverage to 
the existing disease specified in the within referred Chapter. Other than the diseases 
listed in Table - 1 of Chapter - IV, any other pre-existing disease disclosed by the 
person to be insured shall be covered subject to the norms applicable for preexisting 
diseases. 
3.7 In order to ensure that the policyholders of health insurance policies are not 
denied getting access to the technologically and medically advanced treatment 
procedures, Insurers shall not exclude the treatment procedures specified in Chapter V. 
3.8 Other norms related to exclusions are prescribed in Chapter VI of these 
Guidelines. 
4. Definitions: The words used herein and defined in the Insurance Act, 1938, Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 and Regulations notified thereunder 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to them respectively. 
Page 3 of 17 
5. EFFECTIVE DATE: 
The provisions of these Guidelines shall be applicable in respect of all health insurance 
products (Other than Personal Accident, Domestic and Overseas Travel Policies) (both 
Individual and Group) referred in Clause (2) above filed on or after 01 st October, 2019. 
All existing health insurance products that are not in compliance with these Guidelines 
shall not be offered and promoted from 01 st October, 2020 onwards. 
This has the approval of the competent authority. 
(D VS 
General Manager (Health) 
Page 4 of 17 
CHAPTER II 
Exclusions not allowed in Health Insurance Policies: 
1. On examining the extant wordings in the health insurance policy contracts and the 
prevailing exclusions, it is directed that the following exclusions shall not be allowed 
in health insurance (Other than PA & Travel) policies. No Health Insurance Policy 
shall incorporate the following exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy 
contract. 
a. Diseases contracted after taking the health insurance policy, except for the 
conditions excluded for which standard wordings are prescribed in Chapter Ill. 
b. Injury or illness associated with hazardous activities. (Explanation: However, only 
treatment necessitated due to participation in adventure or hazardous sports is 
permitted as exclusion.) 
c. Impairment of Persons' intellectual faculties by usage of drugs, stimulants or 
depressants as prescribed by a medical practitioner. 
d. Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine use, where such 
treatment will not result in recovery or restoration of the previous state of health 
under any circumstances unless in a vegetative state as certified by the treating 
medical practitioner. (Explanation: Expenses up to the date of confirmation by the 
treating doctor that the patient is in vegetative state shall be covered as per the 
terms and conditions of the policy contract). 
e. Treatment of mental illness, stress or psychological disorders and 
neurodegenerative disorders. 
f. Puberty and Menopause related Disorders: Treatment for any symptoms, Illness, 
complications arising due to physiological conditions associated with Puberty, 
Menopause such as menopausal bleeding or flushing . 
g. Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) 
h. Behavioural and Neuro developmental Disorders: 
i. Disorders of adult personality; 
ii. Disorders of speech and language including stammering, dyslexia; 
i. Expenses related to any admission primarily for enteral feedings. 
j. Internal congenital diseases, genetic diseases or disorders. 
k. If specified aetiology for the medical condition is not known. 
I. Failure to seek or follow medical advice or failure to follow treatment. 
Page 5 of 17 
CHAPTER Ill 
Standard Wordings for some of the exclusions in Health Insurance Policies: 
1. To make the wordings of exclusions uniform and specific across the Industry, the 
wordings of the following exclusions are standardized. Where these exclusions or 
exclusions similar to the ones specified hereunder are used, Insurers shall 
incorporate the same wordings in verbatim in the health insurance policy 
contracts. 
2. Against each exclusion a code number is specified. Insurers are directed to put in 
place operational and system procedures to capture exclusion code specific claim 
repudiations for the purpose of deriving data/information relating to exclusion wise 
repudiation of health insurance claims. 
A. Exclusion Name: Pre-Existing Diseases - Code- Excl01 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of #### months of continuous 
coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with insurer. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of sum insured increase. 
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under 
the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then 
waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of .tll-!l!f!!/ months for any pre-existing 
disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and 
accepted by Insurer. 
(Explanation: Subject to product design the number of months, not exceeding 48 
months, shall be specified or a reference may be given to the policy schedule) 
B. Exclusion Name: Specified disease/procedure waiting period- Code- Excl02 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments 
shall be excluded until the expiry of <####> months of continuous coverage after 
the date of inception of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not be 
applicable for claims arising due to an accident. (Explanation: Subject to product 
design the number of months, not exceeding 48 months, shall be specified) 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of sum insured increase. 
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for 
pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the 
policy or declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under 
the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the 
same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
Page 6 of 17 
f) List of specific diseases/procedures (Explanation: "List of specific diseases / 
Procedures in respect of which waiting period is imposed shall be specified here or 
reference to be furnished".) 
C. 30-day waiting period- Code- Excl03 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, 
provided the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous 
Coverage for more than twelve months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured 
in the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
D. Investigation & Evaluation- Code- Excl04 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation 
purposes only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current 
diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
E. Exclusion Name: Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care- Code- Excl05 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for 
receiving treatment. This also includes: 
1. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as 
help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around 
either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, 
emotional and spiritual needs. 
(Note: However, Insurers may endeavour to develop add-on riders to offer respite care 
and home care, especially, the coverage that kicks in at age 65 onwards, provided the 
coverage under base policy is continued without break.) 
F. Obesity/ Weight Control: Code- Excl06 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below 
conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body Mass Index (BMI); 
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe 
co-morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
Page 7 of 17 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
G. Change-of-Gender treatments: Code- Excl07 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change 
characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
H. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code- Excl08 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance 
unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of 
medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the 
attending Medical Practitioner. 
I. Hazardous or Adventure sports: Code- Excl09 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional 
in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock 
climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand 
gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
J. Breach of law: Code- Excl10 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
K. Excluded Providers: Code- Excl11 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner 
or any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website 
/ notified to the policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening 
situations following an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable 
but not the complete claim. 
(Explanation: Details of excluded providers shall be provided with the policy 
document. Insurers to use various means of communication to notify the 
policyholders, such as e-mail, SMS about the updated list being uploaded in the 
website.) 
L. Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and 
consequences thereof. Code- Exel 12 
Page 8 of 17 
M. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar 
establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. 
Code- Excl13 
N. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, 
including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless 
prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care 
procedure. Code- Excl14 
0. Refractive Error: Code- Excl15 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error 
less than 7. 5 dioptres. 
P. Unproven Treatments: Code- Exel 16 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in 
connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or 
supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
Q. Birth control, Sterility and Infertility: Code- Excl17 
Expenses related to Birth Control, sterility and infertility. This includes: 
(i) Any type of contraception, sterilization (ii) Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as /VF, ZIFT, GIFT, /CS/ 
(iii)Gestational Surrogacy 
(iv)Reversa/ of sterilization 
R. Maternity: Code Excl18 
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated 
deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic 
pregnancy; 
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the policy period. 
Page 9 of 17 
CHAPTER IV 
Existing Diseases allowed to be permanently excluded: 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause (1) of Chapter- II, Insurers are allowed to 
incorporate the following existing diseases disclosed by the person to be insured at 
the time of underwriting as permanent exclusions with due consent of the proposer 
or person to be insured, where underwriting policy of the Insurer does not enable the 
Insurer to offer the Health Insurance Coverage for the given existing disease 
disclosed even after levying the loading.The permanent exclusion would be specific 
for the following listed conditions. However, it is emphasized that these permanent 
exclusions shall be allowed only in cases where the policyholder may be denied 
coverage as per the underwriting policy of the Insurer for the existing diseases 
disclosed at the time of underwriting. 
Sr. Disease 
No. 
1 Sarcoidosis 
2 Malignant Neoplasms 
TABLE -1 
ICD Code 
D86.0-D86.9 
C00-C 14 Malignant neoplasms of lip, oral 
cavity and pharynx, • C15-C26 Malignant 
neoplasms of digestive organs, • C30-C39 
Malignant neoplasms of respiratory and 
intrathoracic organs• C40-C41 Malignant 
neoplasms of bone and articular cartilage• 
C43-C44 Melanoma and other malignant 
neoplasms of skin • C45-C49 Malignant 
neoplasms of mesothelial and soft tissue • 
C50-C50 Malignant neoplasms of breast • 
C51-C58 Malignant neoplasms of female 
genital organs • C60-C63 Malignant 
neoplasms of male genital organs • C64-
C68 Malignant neoplasms of urinary tract • 
C69-C72 Malignant neoplasms of eye, brain 
and other parts of central nervous system • 
C73-C75 Malignant neoplasms of thyroid 
and other endocrine glands • C76-C80 
Malignant neoplasms of ill-defined, other 
secondary and unspecified sites • C7A-C7A 
Malignant neuroendocrine tumours • C7BPage 10 of 17 
3 
4 
5 
Epilepsy 
C7B Secondary neuroendocrine tumours • C81-C96 Malignant neoplasms of lymphoid, 
hematopoietic and related tissue• D00-D09 
In situ neoplasms • D1 0-D36 Benign 
neoplasms, except benign neuroendocrine 
tumours • D37-D48 Neoplasms of uncertain 
behaviour, polycythaemia vera and 
myelodysplastic syndromes • D3A-O3A 
Benign neuroendocrine tumours • 049-049 
Neoplasms of unspecified behaviour 
G40 Epilepsy 
Heart Ailment Congenital 149 Other cardiac arrhythmias, (I20-
heart disease and valvular I25)Ischemic heart diseases, 150 Heart 
heart disease failure, I42Cardiomyopathy; 105-109 -
Chronic rheumaticheart diseases. • 020 
Congenital malformations of cardiac 
chambers and connections• 021 Congenital 
malformations of cardiac septa • 022 
Congenital malformations of pulmonary and 
tricuspid valves • 023 Congenital 
malformations of aortic and mitral valves • 
024 Other congenital malformations of 
heart • 025 Congenital malformations of 
great arteries • 026 Congenital 
malformations of great veins • 027 Other 
congenital malformations of peripheral 
vascular system• 028 Other congenital 
malformations of circulatory system • 100-
102 Acute rheumatic fever • 105-109 • 
Chronic rheumatic heart diseases 
Nonrheumatic mitral valve disorders mitral 
(valve): • disease (105.9) • failure (105.8) • 
stenosis (105.0). When of unspecified cause 
but with mention of: • diseases of aortic 
valve (108.0), • mitral stenosis or obstruction 
(105.0) when specified as congenital (023.2, 
023.3) when specified as rheumatic (105), 
I34.0Mitral (valve) insufficiency • Mitral 
(valve): incompetence / regurgitation - • 
NOS or of specified cause, except 
rheumatic, I 34.1 to 134.9 - Valvular heart 
disease. 
Cerebrovascular disease 167 Other cerebrovascular diseases, (I60-
(Stroke) 169) Cerebrovascular diseases 
Page 11 of 17 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Inflammatory 
Diseases 
Bowel 
Chronic Liver diseases 
Pancreatic diseases 
Chronic Kidney disease 
Hepatitis B 
K 50.0 to K 50.9 (including Crohn's and 
Ulcerative colitis) 
K50.0 - Crohn's disease of small intestine; 
K50.1 -Crohn's disease of large intestine; 
K50.8 - Other Crohn's disease; K50.9 -
Crohn's disease, 
unspecified. K51.0 - · Ulcerative (chronic) 
enterocolitis; K51.8 -Other ulcerative colitis; 
K51.9 - Ulcerative colitis, unspecified. 
K70.0 To K74.6 Fibrosis and cirrhosis of 
liver; K71.7 - Toxic liver disease with fibrosis 
and 
cirrhosis of liver; K70.3 - Alcoholic cirrhosis 
of liver; 198.2 - K70.-Alcoholic liver disease; 
Oesophageal varices in diseases classified 
elsewhere. K 70 to K 74.6 (Fibrosis, 
cirrhosis, alcoholic liver disease, CLO) 
K85-Acute pancreatitis; (Q 45.0 to Q 45.1) 
Congenital conditions of pancreas, K 86.1 to 
K 86.8 - Chronic pancreatitis 
N17-N19) Renal failure; 112.0 - Hypertensive 
renal disease with renal failure; 112.9 
Hypertensive renal disease without renal 
failure; 113.1 - Hypertensive heart and renal 
disease with renal failure; 113.2 -
Hypertensive heart and renal disease with 
both (congestive) heart failure and renal 
failure; N99.0 - Post procedural renal failure; 
008.4 - Renal failure following abortion and 
ectopic and molar pregnancy; 090.4 -
Postpartum acute renal failure; P96.0 -
Congenital renal failure. Congenital 
malformations of the urinary system (Q 60 to 
Q64), diabetic nephropathy E14.2, N.083 
B16.0 - Acute hepatitis B with delta-agent 
(coinfection) with hepatic coma; B16.1 -
Acute hepatitis B with delta-agent 
(coinfection) without hepatic coma; B16.2 -
Acute hepatitis B without delta-agent with 
hepatic coma; B16.9 -Acute hepatitis B 
without delta-agent and without hepatic 
coma; B17.0 -Acute delta-
(super)infection of hepatitis B carrier; B18.0 
-Chronic viral hepatitis B with delta-agent; 
B18.1 -Chronic viral hepatitis B without 
delta-agent; 
Page 12 of 17 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15. 
16. 
Alzheimer's Disease, G30.9 - Alzheimer's disease, unspecified; 
Parkinson's Disease - F00.9 -
G30.9Dementia in Alzheimer's disease, 
unspecified, G20 - Parkinson's disease. 
Demyelinating disease 
HIV & AIDS 
Loss of Hearing 
Papulosquamous 
of the skin 
A vascular 
( osteonecrosis) 
disorder 
necrosis 
G.35 to G 37 
B20.0 - HIV disease resulting in 
mycobacterial infection; B20.1 - HIV disease 
resulting in other bacterial infections; B20.2 -
HIV disease resulting in cytomegaloviral 
disease; B20.3 - HIV disease resulting in 
other viral infections; B20.4 - HIV disease 
resulting in candidiasis; B20.5 - HIV disease 
resulting in other mycoses; B20.6 - HIV 
disease resulting In Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia; B20.7 - HIV disease resulting in 
multiple infections; B20.8 - HIV disease 
resulting in other infectious and parasitic 
diseases; B20.9 - HIV disease resulting in 
unspecified infectious or parasitic disease; 
B23.0 - Acute HIV infection syndrome; B24 -
Unspecified human immunodeficiency virus 
[HIV] disease 
H90.0 - Conductive hearing loss, bilateral; 
H90.1 - Conductive hearing loss, unilateral 
with unrestricted hearing on the contralateral 
side; H90.2 - Conductive hearing loss, 
unspecified; H90.3 - Sensorineural hearing 
loss, bilateral; H90.4 - Sensorineural hearing loss, unilateral with unrestricted hearing on 
the contralateral side; H90.6 - Mixed 
conductive and sensorineural hearing loss, 
bilateral; H90.7 - Mixed conductive and 
sensorineural hearing loss, unilateral with 
unrestricted hearing on the contralateral 
side; H90.8 - Mixed conductive and sensorineural hearing loss, unspecified; 
H91.0 - Ototoxic hearing loss; H91.9 -
Hearing loss, unspecified 
L40 - L45 Papulosquamous disorder of the 
skin including psoriasis lichen planus 
M 87 to M 87.9 
Page 13 of 17 
2. With reference to SI No. 13 of the above table, it is clarified that Insurers shall 
comply with the provisions of Section 3 U) of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Act 2017 
which specifies that no person shall discriminate against the protected person on 
any ground including the denial of, or unfair treatment in the provision of insurance 
unless supported by actuarial studies. While complying with the provisions of the 
HIV and AIDS (Prevention and Control) Act 2017, Insurers shall be bound by these 
provisions, where the Actuarial studies support the denial of the health insurance 
coverage, the above approach of allowing to incorporate HIV/ AIDS (refer SI No. 13) 
as the permanent exclusion at the time of underwriting, may be considered by the 
Insurers in order to enable these sections of policyholders to get the health 
insurance coverage for conditions other than the conditions referred in SI No. 13 
above. 
3. Exclusion of coverage in respect of the existing diseases referred in Table - 1 of this 
chapter shall be limited to the ICD Codes of the respective diseases. No claim which 
does not relate to the ICD codes referred herein shall be denied by attributing to the 
diseases referred herein. The policyholders shall be entitled to costs of treatment in 
respect of any other treatments, other than, the treatment directly attributable to ICD 
Codes referred in Table - I above subject to terms and conditions of the policy 
contract. 
Page 14 of 17 
CHAPTER V 
Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies: 
1. To ensure that the policyholders are not denied availability of health insurance 
coverage to Modern Treatment Methods Insurers shall ensure that the following 
treatment procedures shall not be excluded in the health insurance policy contracts. 
These Procedures shall be covered (wherever medically indicated) either as inpatient or as part of domiciliary hospitalization or as day care treatment in a hospital. 
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU 
B. Balloon Sinuplasty 
C. Deep Brain stimulation 
D. Oral chemotherapy 
E. lmmunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection F. Intra vitreal injections 
G. Robotic surgeries 
H. Stereotactic radio surgeries 
I. Bronchical Thermoplasty 
J. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser 
treatment) 
K. IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) 
L. Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for 
haematological conditions to be covered. 
2. Subject to product design sub-limits may be imposed for any of the above 
treatments. 
3. Insurers may endeavour to cover any other modern treatment methods 
Page 15 of 17 
CHAPTER VI 
Other guidelines related to exclusions: 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause (1) of Chapter - II, Insurers are allowed 
to incorporate waiting periods for any specific disease condition(s) however to a 
maximum of 4 years. Subject to product design Insurers are also allowed to 
impose sub limits or annual policy limits for specific diseases/ conditions; be it in 
terms of amount, percentage of sums insured or number of days of 
hospitalisation/ treatment in the policy. However, Insurers shall adopt an 
objective criterion while incorporating any of these limitations and shall be based 
on sound actuarial principles. 
2. Insurers are advised to consider the following options to handle the cases of 
Non-declaration/Misrepresentation of material facts that are surfaced during the 
course of the policy contract. The options specified hereunder for the purpose of 
continuing the health insurance coverage to the policyholders and the underlying claim, if any, shall be subject to terms and conditions of the applicable policy 
contract. 
a) If the non-disclosed condition or disease is from the list of the Permanent 
exclusions specified in Chapter IV above the insurer can take consent from the 
policyholder or insured person and permanently exclude the existing disease 
and continue with the policy. 
b) If the non-disclosed condition is other than from the list of permanent 
exclusions, then the insurer can incorporate additional waiting period of not 
exceeding 4 years for the said undisclosed disease or condition from the date 
the non-disclosed condition was detected and continue with the policy subject 
to obtaining the prior consent of the policyholder or the insured person. The 
within referred additional waiting period that may be imposed for the 
undisclosed conditions is allowed notwithstanding the moratorium period 
referred in Clause no. 3 hereunder. However, the additional waiting period 
referred herein, shall be imposed, only in those cases where had the medical 
condition/ disease been disclosed by the policyholder or the Insured person at 
the point of underwriting, the insurer would have imposed the waiting period 
not exceeding forty-eight months at the time of underwriting. 
c) Where the non-disclosed condition allows the Insurer to continue the coverage 
by levying extra premium or loading based on the objective criteria laid down in the Board approved underwriting policy, the Insurer may levy the same 
prospectively from the date of noticing the non-disclosed condition. However, 
in respect of policy contracts for a duration exceeding one year, if the 
undisclosed condition is surfaced before expiry of the policy term, the Insurer 
Page 16 of 17 
may charge the extra premium or loading referred herein retrospectively from 
the first year of issuance of policy or renewal, whichever is later. 
d) The above three options will not prejudice the rights of the insurer to invoke 
the cancellation clause of 'Disclosure to Information norm' under the policy for 
non-disclosure /misrepresentation subject to its underwriting policy. 
3. After completion of eight continuous years under the policy no look back to be 
applied. This period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The 
moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the first policy and 
subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable from date of 
enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of 
Moratorium Period no health insurance policy shall be contestable except for 
proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The 
policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, 
deductibles as per the policy. The moratorium period is applicable for health 
insurance policies issued by General and Health Insurers. 
4. The wordings of the exclusions or waiting periods shall be specific and 
unambiguous. No open-ended exclusions like "Indirectly related to", "such as", 
"etc." are allowed while incorporating the exclusions and in the waiting periods. 
s. Waiting period for life style conditions namely, Hypertension, Diabetes, Cardiac 
conditions is not allowed for more than 90 days except if these diseases are preexisting and disclosed at the time of underwriting. 
6. Insurers should not deny coverage for claims of Oral Chemo therapy, where 
Chemo therapy is allowed and Peritoneal Dialysis, where dialysis is allowed 
subject to product design. 
7. Pre/Post hospitalization cover under Domiciliary Treatment benefit shall not be 
excluded where pre/post hospitalization cover is offered in case of in-patient 
hospitalization under the product and the underlying product covers domiciliary 
hospitalization. (Explanation: On a review of the definition given to domiciliary 
treatment, it is evident that this treatment is taken only under certain unavoidable 
circumstances that may be beyond the control of the policyholder. Hence, in 
fitness of things it is important that the policyholder can have pre / post 
hospitalization expenses as are otherwise made available in case of in-patient 
hospitalization.) 
Page 17 of 17