1
Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Limited 
Registration No. – 142
SUD Life Saral Jeevan Bima (UIN: 142N079V01)
A Non-Linked Non-participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan
PART A
Welcome Letter 
Date: < >
< >
< >
Dear Sir/ Madam,
Sub: Your Policy Number <<__________>>
Welcome to Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance (SUD Life) family.
We are enclosing herewith the Policy Document for your records. We request you to kindly check the policy 
details, terms and conditions carefully. 
In case you are not satisfied with the terms and conditions of the Policy, then you may return the Policy 
Document to us within Free Look period of 15 days (30 days for distance marketing mode) from the date of 
receipt of this Policy Document specifying reason thereof. In such event, You shall be entitled to refund of 
premium received by Us excluding proportionate risk premium for the period of cover, any expenses incurred 
by Us on medical examination, if any and the stamp duty. All the rights under this Policy shall immediately 
stand extinguished at the cancellation of the Policy.
If the Policy is opted through Insurance Repository (‘IR’), the computation of the said Free Look Period will 
be as stated below:-
For existing e-Insurance Account: Computation of the said Free Look Period will commence from the date of 
delivery of the e mail confirming the credit of the Insurance Policy by the IR.
For New e-Insurance Account: If an application for e-Insurance Account accompanies the proposal for 
insurance, the date of receipt of the ‘welcome kit’ from the IR with the credentials to log on to the e-Insurance 
Account (eIA) or the delivery date of the email confirming the grant of access to the eIA or the delivery date 
of the email confirming the credit of the Insurance policy by the IR to the eIA, whichever is later, shall be 
reckoned for the purpose of computation of the free look period.
THIS POLICY WILL COVER DEATH DUE TO ACCIDENT ONLY DURING THE WAITING PERIOD OF 45 
DAYS FROM THE DATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF RISK. IN CASE OF DEATH OF THE LIFE ASSURED 
OTHER THAN DUE TO ACCIDENT DURING THE WAITING PERIOD, AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO 100% OF 
ALL PREMIUMS RECEIVED EXCLUDING TAXES, IF ANY, SHALL BE PAID AND THE SUM ASSURED 
SHALL NOT BE PAID. 
For any assistance relating to your Policy or claim related query, you may get in touch with us via Toll Free 
No: 18002668833 or Land line No: 022 71966300 (charges apply) or email Us at: customercare@sudlife.in. 
Thanking you once again for your patronage and looking forward to your continued support in future as well. 
Yours sincerely, 
Signed for and on behalf of SUD Life Insurance Company Limited 
Authorized Signatory
2
Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Ltd.
Registered Office: 11th floor, Vishwaroop I.T. Park, Plot No. 34, 35 & 38, Sector 30A of IIP, Vashi, Navi 
Mumbai-400 703
SUD Life Saral Jeevan Bima 
(UIN: 142N079V01)
[A Non-Linked Non-participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan]
Corporate Agent Name /Agent/ Broker/ Insurance Marketing Firms
(IMF)/ Sales Representative Name:
Specified Person/ Insurance Sales Person (ISP) Name: 
Specified Person/Agent/ Broker/ IMF Code: 
Specified Person/ Agent/ Broker/ IMF Registration Code:
Specified Person/ Agent/ Broker/ IMF Tel. No.: 
Specified Person/ Agent/ Broker/ IMF Email ID: 
Specified Person/Agent/ Broker/ IMF Address:
Preamble
The Proposer named in the Schedule of this Policy has submitted the Application together with a personal 
documents and statement and the first instalment of Premium specified in the Schedule to Star Union Daiichi Life Insurance Company Limited herein referred to as the “Company”. It is agreed by the Company and 
the Proposer (the “Parties”) that the Application along with the personal statement and the declaration 
together with any report or other document leading to the issuance of this Policy shall form the basis of this 
contract of insurance.
It is further agreed by and between the Parties that these terms and conditions, any endorsement or a 
separate instrument executed by the Company in connection with this Policy and any special provisions 
subject to which this Policy has been issued by the Company and any schedules, annexure, endorsement
and/or addendums hereto shall together form part of this Policy. 
It is also agreed that this Policy shall be governed by the laws of India in force from time to time and all 
premiums and benefits shall be payable in Indian Rupees only. The benefits and the Premiums payable 
under this Policy will be subject to taxes and other statutory levies as may be applicable from time to time 
and such taxes, levies etc will be recovered directly and completely from the Policyholder.
3
SCHEDULE
Policy Details
Date of Proposal < > Proposal Number < >
Policy Number < > Client ID < >
Date of Commencement
of Policy
DD/MM/YYYY Date of Commencement of 
Risk
DD/MM/YYYY
Policy Term < XX > Years Date of Issuance of Policy DD/MM/YYYY
Premium Paying Term 
(PPT)
  Years
Mode of payment Monthly/ Half yearly/ 
Yearly/ Single
Next Premium due date DD/MM/YYYY Last premium due date DD/MM/YYYY
Date of Maturity DD/MM/YYYY
Plan Details Basic Sum 
Assured (Rs.)
Installment 
Premium (Rs.)
(a)
Applicable 
taxes
(b)
Total Instalment 
Premium plus 
applicable taxes, if 
any (Rs.) (a+b)
Base Plan 
Policyholder Details
Name of the Policyholder
Date of Birth Age 
Gender Address
Telephone No. Mobile No.
Email
Life Assured Details
Name Age Admitted
Date of Birth Age
Gender Telephone No.
Address Mobile No
Email
Nominee Details
Name of the Nominee (s) 
Age of the Nominee (s)
Gender of the Nominee (s)
Nomination share (in %) 
Relationship with the Life 
Assured
Name of appointee (if 
nominee is minor)
Relationship of Appointee 
with Nominee
4
Gender of the Appointee
Special Provisions (if any) :<< >>
Stamp Duty of Rs. << >> is paid for this policy by pay order, vide Mudrank no XXX dated dd/mm/yyyy.
Signed for and on behalf of SUD Life Insurance Co. Ltd
(Authorized Signatory Name)
IRDAI Regn: 142 I CIN - U66010MH2007PLC174472
Note: Your Life Cover under this Policy shall commence only on the Date of Commencement of Risk. On 
examination of this Policy, if you notice any mistake, then the Policy Document is to be returned for 
correction to the Company.
5
PART B 
Definitions
Term Meaning
Age Age of the Life Assured on the last birthday at the time of commencement 
of the policy.
Annualized 
Premium
Refers to total amount of premium payable in a policy year excluding taxes, 
rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal 
premiums, if any.
Appointee Refers to a person to whom the proceeds/ benefits secured under the 
Policy are payable if the benefit becomes payable to the nominee and 
nominee is minor as on the date of claim payment.
Application/ 
Proposal
Refers to the proposal form as defined under IRDAI (Protection of 
Policyholders’ Interest) Regulations, 2017 and amendments thereto, 
completed, signed and submitted by the Proposer to the Company for 
obtaining insurance coverage under this Policy.
Assignee Refers to a person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue 
of an Assignment.
Assignment Means the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee,” 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of Insurance Act, 1938, as 
amended from time to time.
Assignor Means the person who transfers the rights of the life insurance policy to 
the Assignee.
Base Policy Refers to that part of the Policy referring to basic benefit (benefits referred 
to in this Policy Document excluding benefits covered under Rider(s), if 
opted for).
Basic Sum Assured Means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder 
at the time of taking the policy
Beneficiary/ 
Claimant
Means the person who is entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. The 
Beneficiary may be Life Assured or Policyholder or his Assignee or 
Nominees or proved Executors or Administrators or other Legal 
Representatives as the case may be.
Business Day or 
Working Day
Means the day on which the offices of the Company remain open for 
transactions with the public at the place where the concerned transaction 
is to be carried out.
Date of 
Commencement of 
Policy
Refers to the start date of the Policy.
Date of 
Commencement of 
Risk
Refers to the date on which the Company accepts the risk for insurance 
(cover) as evidenced in the Schedule of the Policy.
Date of Issuance of 
Policy
Means the date as specified in the Schedule of the Policy.
Date of Maturity Means the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy Term is 
completed.
Death Benefit Means the benefit, agreed at the commencement of the contract, and 
means the amount as specified in the policy bond and is payable on death 
of Life Assured as per the terms and conditions of the Policy.
Discharge Form Refers to the form to be filled by policyholder/claimant to claim the death 
benefit/refund under the Policy.
Due date
(in case of Regular 
Premium / Limited 
Premium payment)
Means a fixed date on which the policy premium is due and payable by the 
policyholder.
Endorsement Means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any 
amendments or modifications agreed to or issued by the Company
6
Free Look Period Means the period of 15 days (30 days if the Policy is an electronic policy 
or is purchased through Distance Marketing where distance marketing 
means through any means of communication other than in person) from 
the date of receipt of the Policy Document by the Policyholder to review 
the terms and conditions of this policy and where the Policyholder 
disagrees to any of those terms and conditions, he/ she has the option to 
return this Policy as detailed in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy 
Document.
Grace Period Refers to the time granted by the insurer from the due date for the payment 
of premium, without any penalty/ late fee, during which time the policy is 
considered to be inforce with the insurance cover without any interruption 
as per the terms of the policy.
Inforce Policy Means a policy in which all the due premiums have been paid and the 
premiums are not outstanding
Instalment Premium The Premium payable periodically under the policy as shown in the 
schedule exclusive of applicable taxes, if any.
IRDAI Means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
IRDAI Rules The regulations made and the guidelines, directives and circulars issued 
by the IRDAI from time to time.
Lapsed Is the status of the Policy when due premium is not paid within the grace 
period and the benefits under the Policy will cease from the date of such 
unpaid premium.
Life Assured Is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted.
Material Information Is the information already known to the Life Assured at the time of applying 
for Life Insurance, which has a bearing on underwriting of the proposal 
/Policy submitted
Maturity date Refers to the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy matures.
Nomination Is the process of nominating a person(s) in accordance with provisions of 
Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time.
Nominee(s) Means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life 
Assured) under this Policy who is (are) authorised to receive the claim 
benefit payable under this Policy.
Non Participating 
policy
Means the Policy is not eligible for share of profit depending upon the 
Company’s experience.
Policy Anniversary Means one year from the date of commencement of the Policy and the 
same date falling each year thereafter, till the date of maturity.
Policy Cancellation Means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire policy before the 
stipulated date of maturity.
Policy Cancellation 
Value
Means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of cancellation in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this policy.
Policy/ Policy 
Document
Means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the 
Company which evidences the contract of Insurance between the 
policyholder and the Company.
Policyholder Is the legal owner of this policy.
Policy Term Refers to the period, in years, as chosen by the policyholder and mentioned 
in the Schedule, commencing from the Date of commencement of policy to 
the date of Maturity.
Policy Year Refers to the period between two consecutive policy anniversaries. This 
period includes the first day and excludes the next policy anniversary day.
Premium The contractual amount payable by the Policyholder at specified times 
periodically as mentioned in the Schedule of this Policy Document to 
secure the benefits under the policy. The premium payable will be “Total 
Single / Instalment Premium” which includes single / instalment Premium 
for Base Policy and instalment Premium for Rider(s), if rider(s) has/have 
been opted for. The term ‘Premium’ used anywhere in this Policy 
Document does not include any taxes which are payable separately.
7
Premium Paying 
Term (PPT)
Means the period, in years, during which premium is payable
Proof of continued 
insurability
Refers to the information that may be sought from the policyholder to 
decide revival of the policy. This includes Form of declaration of Good 
Health, Medical Reports, Special Reports and any such document as may 
be called for by the Company, in accordance with the Board Approved 
Underwriting Policy of the Company.
Proposer Refers to a person who proposes the life insurance proposal.
Revival of the policy Means restoration of a lapsed policy which was discontinued due to the 
non-payment of premium, by the insurer with all the benefits mentioned in 
the policy document, with or without rider benefits if any, upon the receipt 
of all the premiums due and other charges/late fee, if any, as per the terms 
and conditions of the policy, upon being satisfied as to the continued 
insurability of the insured/ policyholder on the basis of the information, 
documents and reports furnished by the policyholder, in accordance with
the then existing Board Approved Underwriting Policy of the Company.
Revival Period Means the period of five consecutive years from the due date of first unpaid 
premium or as is allowed under applicable Product Regulations, during 
which period the policyholder is entitled to revive the policy which was 
discontinued due to the non-payment of premium.
Schedule Means the part of policy document that gives the specific details of your 
policy.
Sum Assured on 
Death
Refers to the life insurance cover opted by the Proposer and is the absolute 
amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on death of the 
life assured in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, as 
mentioned in Condition 1 (a) of Part C of this Policy Document.
Surrender Means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire Policy before 
maturity.
Surrender Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of surrender in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this policy
Underwriting Refers to the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and 
ensuring that the cost of the cover is proportionate to the risks faced by the 
individual concerned. Based on underwriting, a decision on acceptance or 
rejection of cover as well as applicability of suitable premium or modified 
terms, if any, is taken.
Waiting Period Means a period of 45 (forty five) days from the Date of Commencement of 
Risk. In case of revival of Policy, the Waiting period shall not be applicable.
We, Us, Ours, 
Company
Refers to Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. Ltd (SUD Life).
You, Your/ Yours Refers to the Policyholder.
Interpretation: In this Policy Document, where appropriate, references to the singular will include 
references to the plural and references to one gender will include references to the other.
8
PART C
1. Benefits: The following are the benefits under the Policy
(a) Death Benefit
(i) On death of the Life Assured during the Waiting Period and provided the Policy is in force, the 
Death Benefit amount payable as a lump sum is:
(1) In case of Accidental Death, for regular premium or limited premium payment policy, equal to 
Sum Assured on Death which is the highest of:
(a) 10 times the Annualized Premium, or
(b) 105% of Total premiums paid as on the date of death, or
(c) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
(2) In case of Accidental Death, for single premium policy, equal to Sum Assured on Death which 
is the higher of: 
(a) 125% of Single premium or 
(b) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
(3) In case of death due to cause other than accident, the Death Benefit is equal to 100% of all 
Premiums paid excluding taxes, if any
(ii) On death of the Life Assured after the expiry of Waiting Period but before the stipulated date of 
maturity and provided the Policy is in force, the Death Benefit amount payable as a lump sum is:
(1) For Regular premium, or limited premium payment policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is 
the highest of:
(a) 10 times of annualized premium; or
(b) 105% of the Total premiums paid as on the date of death; or
(c) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
(2) For Single premium policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is the higher of:
(a) 125% of Single Premium or
(b) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death
Where,
Total premium paid is the total of all the premiums received, excluding any extra premium, any rider premium and taxes.
Premiums referred above shall not include any extra amount chargeable under the policy due to underwriting decision and rider
premium(s), if any.
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be an amount equal to Basic Sum Assured.
(b) Maturity Benefit
No Maturity Benefit will be payable on the Life Assured surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity.
(c) Rider Benefit 
No rider benefits are available under this policy. 
2. Payment of Premium (Applicable in case of Limited and Regular Premium payment policies only)
(a) The policyholder has to pay the Premium on or before the due dates as specified in the Schedule of 
this Policy Document along with applicable taxes, if any.
(b) In case of death of Life Assured under an inforce policy wherein all the premiums due till the date of 
death have been paid and where the mode of payment of premium is other than yearly, balance 
premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary will be 
deducted from the claim amount.
The Company does not have any obligation to issue a notice that premium is due or for the amount 
that is due.
9
3. Grace Period (Applicable in case of Limited and Regular Premium payment policies only)
A grace period of 30 days where the mode of payment of Premium is yearly or half yearly and 15 days in 
case of monthly, is allowed for the payment of each renewal Premium. If the premium is not paid before 
the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses.
If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the grace period but before the payment of the premium 
then due, the policy will be treated as inforce and still be valid and the benefits shall be paid after 
deductions of the said unpaid premium as also the balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date 
of death and before the next policy anniversary.
10
PART D
Conditions related to servicing aspects
(1) Proof of age
The premiums under the Policy are calculated based on the age of the Life Assured as declared in the 
Proposal.
If the Age of the Life Assured has been misstated and if the correct Age of the Life Assured makes the 
Life Assured ineligible for this Policy, the Company may offer a suitable plan as per the then existing 
underwriting norms. If the life assured does not wish to opt for the alternative plan or if it is not possible 
for the Company to grant any other plan, then the Policy shall be cancelled and the premiums paid shall 
be refunded without interest, subject to deduction of stamp duty paid and the cost of medicals, if any. The 
Policy will terminate on the said payment.
If the correct Age of the Life Assured makes the Life Assured eligible for this Policy, revised Premium 
depending upon the Correct Age will be payable. Difference of premium from inception will be collected 
with interest, if age declared is higher and excess premium collected will be refunded without interest, if 
age is found to be lower.
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time shall be applicable.
(2) Free Look Period 
(a) This is an option to review the Policy following receipt of Policy Document. The Policyholder has a 
free look period of 15 days (30 days in case of electronic policies and policies obtained through 
distance mode) from the date of receipt of the policy document, to review the terms and conditions of 
the policy and where the policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and conditions, the policy 
holder has the option to return the policy to the Company for cancellation, stating the reasons for his 
objection, then the policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of the premium paid subject only to the 
deduction of a proportionate risk premium for the period of cover and expenses incurred by the 
Company on medical examination of the proposer and stamp duty charges.
(b) A request received by the Company for free look cancellation of the policy shall be processed and 
premium refunded within 15 days of receipt of the request, as stated vide (a) above.
(c) The Policy shall terminate on payment of this amount and all rights, benefits and interests under 
this Policy will stand extinguished.
(3) Forfeiture provisions
(a) In case of Regular Premium payment policies, if the premium has not been paid in respect of this policy 
and any subsequent premium be not duly paid, all the benefits shall cease after the expiry of grace 
period from the date of first unpaid premium and nothing shall be payable, and the premiums paid till 
then are also not refundable.
(b) Forfeiture in Certain Other Events: In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be 
contravened or in case it is found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal, 
personal statement, declaration and connected documents or any material information is withheld, then 
and in every such case this policy shall be void and all claims to any benefit by virtue hereof shall be 
subject to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act , 1938, as amended from time to time.
(4) Revival of lapsed Policies (Applicable for Regular and Limited Premium payment policies only)
(a) If the Policy has lapsed due to non-payment of due premium within the days of grace, it may be 
revived during the life time of the Life Assured, but within the Revival Period of 5 years and before 
the Date of Maturity, as the case may be, on payment of all the arrears of premium(s) together with 
interest at a rate which shall be determined as follows: 
11
The interest rate is calculated as equal to 10 year G-sec benchmark interest rate as on last working 
day of the previous financial year +1.50%, rounded up to the next multiple of 25 basis points and shall 
be compounded half yearly. The 10 year G Sec rate on 31st March 2020 was 6.14%. The rate of 
interest for FY 20-21 is 7.75% (i.e. 6.14%+1.50%+rounding to next 25 bps). 
Any change in the basis of determination of interest rate shall be done only after prior approval of the 
Authority. The company would review the revival interest rate every 1st April and the revised revival 
interest rate will also be applicable from 1st April.
(b) In addition to the arrears of premium with interest, proof of continued insurability may be required for 
revival of the discontinued policy. The Company, however, reserves the right to accept at original 
terms, accept with modified terms or decline the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of the 
discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved by the Company and is 
specifically communicated to the Policyholder.
(c) If a lapsed policy is not revived within the revival period of 5 years and before the Date of Maturity, 
the policy will automatically terminate. In case of Regular Premium policies, nothing shall be payable. 
However, in case of Limited Premium Payment policies subject to payment of two full policy years 
premium, the amount as payable in case of policy cancellation value shall be refunded and the policy 
will terminate.
(d) Revival of Rider, if opted for, will only be considered along with the revival of the Base Policy and 
not in isolation.
(5) Surrender
Surrender value is not applicable under this Policy.
(6) Policy Cancellation Value
Policy Cancellation Value will be payable:
(a) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before the stipulated date of maturity in case of Single 
premium Policy; or
(b) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before the stipulated date of maturity or at the end of 
revival period if the policy is not revived, in case of Limited Premium Payment Policies
(c) The amount payable shall be as follows: 
(i) Single Premium Policies - The Policy Cancellation Value acquires immediately after receipt of 
Single Premium and is calculated as follows:
70% × (𝑆𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑙𝑒 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑢𝑚 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑑 + 𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑢𝑚 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑑) ×
𝑈𝑛𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑑 𝑃𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦 𝑇𝑒𝑟𝑚
𝑂𝑟𝑖𝑔𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑃𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦 𝑇𝑒𝑟𝑚
(ii) Limited Premium Payment Term: 5 years or 10 years - The Policy Cancellation Value acquires 
if at least two (2) consecutive full years’ premiums are paid and is calculated as follows: 
70% × (𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑢𝑚𝑠 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑑 + 𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑢𝑚𝑠 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑑) ×
𝑈𝑛𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑑 𝑃𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦 𝑇𝑒𝑟𝑚
𝑂𝑟𝑖𝑔𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑃𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦 𝑇𝑒𝑟𝑚
(d) No policy cancellation value shall be payable in respect of regular premium policies. 
(7) Policy Loan
No loan will be available under this policy
(8) Termination of Policy
12
The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the 
following events: 
(a) The date on which death benefit becomes payable; or 
(b) The date on which refund, if applicable, is settled, in case of cancellation of policy ; or 
(c) The date of maturity; or 
(d) On expiry of revival period, if the policy has not been revived; or 
(e) On payment of free look cancellation amount. 
13
PART E
Not applicable
14
PART F
Other Terms & Conditions
(1) Assignment: Assignment is allowed under this plan as per section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as 
amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-1 of this 
Policy Document. The notice of assignment should be submitted for registration to the office of the 
Company, where the policy is serviced.
(2) Nomination: Nomination by the holder of a policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per 
Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 
39 are contained in Annexure-2 of this Policy Document. The notice of nomination or change of 
nomination should be submitted for registration to the office of the Company, where the policy is 
serviced. In registering nomination the Company does not accept any responsibility or express any 
opinion as to its validity or legal effect.
(3) Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938:
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time, shall be 
applicable. The current provisions are contained in Annexure-3 of this policy document
(4) Suicide Exclusion
(a) Under Regular/ Limited Premium Policy: This policy shall be void if the Life Assured commits suicide 
at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk, provided the policy is inforce or 
within 12 months from the date of revival and the Company will not entertain any claim except for 
80% of the premiums paid (excluding any extra amount if charged under the policy due to underwriting 
decisions, taxes and rider premiums, if any) till the date of death.
This clause shall not be applicable for a lapsed policy as nothing is payable under such policies.
(b) Under single Premium Policy: This policy shall be void if the Life assured commits suicide at any time 
within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk and the Company will not entertain any 
claim except 90 % of the Single Premium paid excluding any extra amount if charged under the policy 
due to underwriting decisions and rider premiums, if any.
(5) Taxes
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other 
constitutional tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from 
time to time.
The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on 
premiums (for base policy and rider, if any) including extra amount if charged under the policy due to 
underwriting decisions, which shall be collected separately over and above in addition to the premiums 
payable by the policyholder.
The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan.
The tax benefits, if any, would be as per the prevailing provisions of the tax laws in India. The 
Policyholder or the nominee shall be liable for compliance of applicable tax provisions.
(6) Normal requirements for a claim 
(a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the claimant shall submit while lodging the claim in case 
of death of the Life Assured shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the Company, accompanied with 
original policy document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the 
bank account, proof of title, proof of death, medical treatment prior to the death (if any), school/ 
college/ employer's certificate, whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Company. If the age 
is not admitted under the policy, the proof of age of the Life assured shall also be submitted.
15
In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an accident, the Company may call 
for the copies of First Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post Mortem report. The Company 
may also call for additional documents as may be required by them.
Within 90 days from the date of death, intimation of death along with death certificate must be notified 
in writing to the office of the Company where the policy is serviced. However, delay in intimation of 
the genuine claim by the claimant, may be condoned by the Company, on merit, and where delay is 
proved to be for the reasons beyond his/her control.
(b) Policy Cancellation: In case of cancellation of the policy, the Policyholder shall submit the discharge 
form along with the original policy document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the 
claim amount to the bank account.
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be required as 
per law shall also be required to be submitted.
(7) Issuance of duplicate Policy 
The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy upon loss of policy document along with 
other requirements as may be prescribed by the Company, and We will issue a duplicate Policy 
Document at no extra cost. 
(8) Jurisdiction
The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle 
any disputes arising under the Policy.
(9) Legislative Changes: 
The Terms and Conditions including the premiums and benefits payable under this policy are subject to 
variation in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.
(10) Change of address
(a) By You - It is very important that You immediately communicate Us about any change of address 
or nomination to enable the Company to service this Policy effectively. 
(b) By The Company – We will change the address stated above and intimate You of such change by 
suitable means.
16
PART G
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
Grievance Redressal Mechanism has been set-up for the resolution of any dispute or grievances/ 
complaint in respect of Policy. You are requested to submit a written complaint at any of the below 
mentioned touch points:
 
a. Toll Free No 1800 266 8833 Monday – Saturday from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm
b. Email to Us at customercare@sudlife.in
c. Write to Us at Customer Care, Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. Ltd., 11th Floor, Vishwaroop 
IT Park, Plot No. 34, 35 & 38, Sector 30A of IIP, Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400 703.
d. Online through website www.sudlife.in
e. Any of SUD Life’s Regional/ Branch Office. Our Regional/ Branch office addresses are available on 
our website
If You are not satisfied with the response provided by any of the above touch points, You may write to 
the Grievance Redressal Officer at grievanceredressal@sudlife.in or send a communication at 
Grievance Redressal Officer, Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Ltd., 11th Floor, Vishwaroop 
IT Park, Plot No. 34, 35 & 38, Sector 30A of IIP, Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400 703.
To further escalate the matter, You may write to the Chief Grievance Redressal Officer at cgro@sudlife.in
or send a communication at Chief Grievance Redressal Officer, Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance 
Company Ltd., 11th Floor, Vishwaroop IT Park, Plot No. 34, 35 & 38, Sector 30A of IIP, Vashi, Navi 
Mumbai – 400 703.
An acknowledgment to all complaints received will be sent by the Company within 3 working days of 
receipt of the complaint/grievance.
However, if still You are not satisfied with our response or do not receive a response from Us within 15 
days, You may approach the Grievance Cell of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India (IRDAI) on the following contact details:
IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (IGCC) TOLL FREE NO: 155255
Email ID: complaints@irdai.gov.in
You can also register your complaint online at http://www.igms.irda.gov.in/
Address for communication for complaints by fax/paper: 
Consumer Affairs Department
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachihowli, Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana
Fax No: 91- 40 – 6678 9768
Manner of making complaint to Insurance Ombudsman:
a) If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the decision/ resolution or complaint is still not resolved, then 
they may approach the Insurance Ombudsman (at the address given below), by making a complaint in 
writing to the Ombudsman within whose jurisdiction the branch or office of the insurer complained 
against is located, or the residential address or place of residence of the complainant is located, and if 
his/ her issues pertains to the following as per the provisions of Rule 13(1) of the Insurance 
Ombudsman Rules 2017:
i. delay in settlement of claim; 
ii. any partial or total repudiation of claims
iii. dispute over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy; 
iv. misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the policy documents or policy 
contract;
v. Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the disputes relates to claim;
17
vi. Policy servicing related grievances against insurer and their agents and intermediaries;
vii. Issuance of policy not in conformity with proposal form submitted
viii. Non issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium; 
ix. any other matter resulting from violation of provision of Insurance Act, 1938 or the regulation, 
circulars, guidelines or instruction issued by the IRDAI from time to time or the terms and 
conditions of the policy contract, in so far as they relate to issues mentioned in clause (i) to (viii)
b) The complaint should be made in writing duly signed by the complainant or by his/ her legal heirs, 
nominee or assignee with full details of the complaint, the name and contact details of complainant and 
the name of the branch or office of the insurer against which the complaint is made, the nature and 
extent of the loss caused to the complainant and the relief sought from the Ombudsman.
c) As per provision of Rule 14(3) of the Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017 , the complaint to the 
Ombudsman can be made: 
i. Only if a representation had been made to the Company in regard to the grievance and the same 
has been rejected by the Company or the complainant is not satisfied with the reply of the 
Company or no reply has been received to the representation for a period of 1 month after it is 
received by the Company; 
ii. Within a period of 1 year from the date of receipt of rejection order or from the date of receipt of 
final reply of the Company; 
iii. The complaint is not on the same subject matter for which any proceedings before any court or 
consumer forum or arbitrator is pending or were so earlier. 
The list of the Ombudsman with their addresses has been given below:
Office of the 
Ombudsman
Contact Details Areas of Jurisdiction
AHMEDABAD Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Prakash Bldg, Tilak Marg, Relief Road,
Ahmedabad - 380001. Tel nos: 079-25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@gbic.co.in 
Gujarat , UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu 
BENGALURU Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078. Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@gbic.co.in
Karnataka
BHOPAL Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. 
Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@gbic.co.in
Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh 
BHUBANESHWAR Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@gbic.co.in
Orissa 
CHANDIGARH Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 
17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@gbic.co.in
Punjab , Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu & Kashmir , Chandigarh 
CHENNAI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, Teynampet,
CHENNAI – 600 018. Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@gbic.co.in
Tamil Nadu,Pondicherry Town and Karaikal 
(which are part of Pondicherry) 
NEW DELHI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New 
Delhi – 110 002. Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@gbic.co.in
Delhi 
GUWAHATI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. 
Road, Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2132204 / 2132205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@gbic.co.in
Assam , Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura 
18
HYDERABAD Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards, LakdiKa-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 65504123 / 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@gbic.co.in
Andhra Pradesh, Telgana, Yanam – a part 
of the UT of Pondicherry 
JAIPUR Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005. Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@gbic.co.in
Rajasthan
ERNAKULAM Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@gbic.co.in
Kerala , Lakshadweep , Mahe – a part of 
Pondicherry 
KOLKATA Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@gbic.co.in
West Bengal , Andaman & Nicobar Islands 
, Sikkim 
LUCKNOW Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@gbic.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang,
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
MUMBAI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@gbic.co.in
Goa, 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane
NOIDA Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@gbic.co.in
State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
PATNA Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@gbic.co.in
Bihar, Jharkhand.
PUNE Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030. Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@gbic.co.in
Maharashtra,
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane
Excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions and special 
provisions/conditions the English version shall stand valid.
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY DOCUMENT, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND 
THEREIN, RETURN IT IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION.
19
Annexure 1
Section 38- Assignment and Transfer of Insurance Policies
Assignment or transfer of a policy should be in accordance with Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended 
from time to time. The extant provisions in this regard are as follows:
1. This policy may be transferred/assigned, wholly or in part, with or without consideration.
2. An Assignment may be effected in a policy by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument 
under notice to the Insurer.
3. The instrument of assignment should indicate the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons for the assignment 
or transfer, antecedents of the assignee and terms on which assignment is made.
4. The assignment must be signed by the transferor or assignor or duly authorized agent and attested by at least one 
witness.
5. The transfer of assignment shall not be operative as against an insurer until a notice in writing of the transfer or 
assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument itself or copy there of certified to be correct by both 
transferor and transferee or their duly authorized agents have been delivered to the insurer.
6. Fee to be paid for assignment or transfer can be specified by the Authority through Regulations.
7. On receipt of notice with fee, the insurer should Grant a written acknowledgement of receipt of notice. Such notice 
shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer of duly receiving the notice.
8. If the insurer maintains one or more places of business, such notices shall be delivered only at the place where 
the policy is being serviced.
9. The insurer may accept or decline to act upon any transfer or assignment or endorsement, if it has sufficient 
reasons to believe that it is
a. not bonafide or
b. not in the interest of the policyholder or
c. not in public interest or
d. is for the purpose of trading of the insurance policy.
10. Before refusing to act upon endorsement, the Insurer should record the reasons in writing and communicate the 
same in writing to Policyholder within 30 days from the date of policyholder giving a notice of transfer or 
assignment.
11. In case of refusal to act upon the endorsement by the Insurer, any person aggrieved by the refusal may prefer a 
claim to IRDAI within 30 days of receipt of the refusal letter from the Insurer.
12. The priority of claims of persons interested in an insurance policy would depend on the date on which the notices 
of assignment or transfer is delivered to the insurer; where there are more than one instruments of transfer or 
assignment, the priority will depend on dates of delivery of such notices. Any dispute in this regard as to priority 
should be referred to Authority.
13. Every assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be absolute assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee 
shall be deemed to be absolute assignee or transferee, except
a. where assignment or transfer is subject to terms and conditions of transfer or assignment OR
b. where the transfer or assignment is made upon condition that
i. the proceeds under the policy shall become payable to policyholder or nominee(s) in the event of assignee 
or transferee dying before the insured OR
ii. the insured surviving the term of the policy
Such conditional assignee will not be entitled to obtain a loan on policy or surrender the policy. This provision 
will prevail notwithstanding any law or custom having force of law which is contrary to the above position.
14. In other cases, the insurer shall, subject to terms and conditions of assignment, recognize the transferee or 
assignee named in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee and such person
a. shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor was subject to at the date of 
transfer or assignment and
b. may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy
c. obtain loan under the policy or surrender the policy without obtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor 
or making him a party to the proceedings
15. Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a life insurance policy under an assignment or transfer 
effected before commencement of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time shall not be affected by 
this section.
[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of amendments of Insurance Act 1938 and only a simplified 
version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to Original Ordinance Gazette 
Notification dated December 26, 2014 for complete and accurate details].
20
Annexure 2
Section 39- Nomination by policyholder
 
Nomination of a life insurance Policy is as below in accordance with Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended 
from time to time. The extant provisions in this regard are as follows:
1. The policyholder of a life insurance on his own life may nominate a person or persons to whom money secured by 
the policy shall be paid in the event of his death.
2. Where the nominee is a minor, the policyholder may appoint any person to receive the money secured by the policy 
in the event of policyholder’s death during the minority of the nominee. The manner of appointment to be laid down 
by the insurer.
3. Nomination can be made at any time before the maturity of the policy.
4. Nomination may be incorporated in the text of the policy itself or may be endorsed on the policy communicated to 
the insurer and can be registered by the insurer in the records relating to the policy.
5. Nomination can be cancelled or changed at any time before policy matures, by an endorsement or a further 
endorsement or a will as the case may be.
6. A notice in writing of Change or Cancellation of nomination must be delivered to the insurer for the insurer to be 
liable to such nominee. Otherwise, insurer will not be liable if a bonafide payment is made to the person named in 
the text of the policy or in the registered records of the insurer.
7. Fee to be paid to the insurer for registering change or cancellation of a nomination can be specified by the Authority 
through Regulations.
8. On receipt of notice with fee, the insurer should grant a written acknowledgement to the policyholder of having 
registered a nomination or cancellation or change thereof.
9. A transfer or assignment made in accordance with Section 38 shall automatically cancel the nomination except in 
case of assignment to the insurer or other transferee or assignee for purpose of loan or against security or its 
reassignment after repayment. In such case, the nomination will not get cancelled to the extent of insurer’s or 
transferee’s or assignee’s interest in the policy. The nomination will get revived on repayment of the loan.
10. The right of any creditor to be paid out of the proceeds of any policy of life insurance shall not be affected by the 
nomination.
11. In case of nomination by policyholder whose life is insured, if the nominees die before the policyholder, the proceeds 
are payable to policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives or holder of succession certificate.
12. In case nominee(s) survive the person whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be paid to such 
survivor(s).
13. Where the policyholder whose life is insured nominates his
a. parents or
b. spouse or
c. children or
d. spouse and children
e. or any of them
the nominees are beneficially entitled to the amount payable by the insurer to the policyholder unless it is proved 
that policyholder could not have conferred such beneficial title on the nominee having regard to the nature of 
his title.
14. If nominee(s) die after the policyholder but before his share of the amount secured under the policy is paid, the 
share of the expired nominee(s) shall be payable to the heirs or legal representative of the nominee or holder of 
succession certificate of such nominee(s).
15. The provisions of sub-section 7 and 8 (13 and 14 above) shall apply to all life insurance policies maturing for 
payment after the commencement of Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time.
16. If policyholder dies after maturity but the proceeds and benefit of the policy has not been paid to him because of his 
death, his nominee(s) shall be entitled to the proceeds and benefit of the policy.
17. The provisions of Section 39 are not applicable to any life insurance policy to which Section 6 of Married Women’s 
Property Act, 1874 applies or has at any time applied except where before or after Insurance Act 1938 as amended 
from time to time, a nomination is made in favor of spouse or children or spouse and children whether or not on the 
face of the policy it is mentioned that it is made under Section 39. Where nomination is intended to be made to 
spouse or children or spouse and children under Section 6 of MWP Act, it should be specifically mentioned on the 
policy. In such a case only, the provisions of Section 39 will not apply.
[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of amendments of Insurance Act 1938 and only a simplified 
version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to Original Ordinance Gazette 
Notification dated December 26, 2014 for complete and accurate details].
21
Annexure 3
Section 45 – Policy shall not be called in question on the ground of mis-statement after three years.
Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, amended 
from time to time are as follows:
1. No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after expiry of 3 yrs from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.
2. On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in question within 3 years from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.
For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees 
of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which such decision is based.
3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer 
or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:
a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true;
b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c. Any other act fitted to deceive; and
d. Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be fraudulent.
4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of the case, it is the duty of the insured or his agent 
keeping silence to speak or silence is in itself equivalent to speak.
5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured / beneficiary can prove that 
the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact 
or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. Onus of 
disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or beneficiaries.
6. Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on the ground that any statement of or suppression 
of a fact material to expectancy of life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document basis 
which policy was issued or revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured 
or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on 
which decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based.
7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on fraud, the premium collected on policy till the date of 
repudiation shall be paid to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, within a period 
of 90 days from the date of repudiation.
8. Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus 
is on insurer to show that if the insurer had been aware of the said fact, no life insurance policy would have been 
issued to the insured.
9. The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so and no policy shall be deemed to be called 
in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. So, this 
Section will not be applicable for questioning age or adjustment based on proof of age submitted subsequently.
[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of amendments of Insurance Act 1938 and only a simplified 
version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to Original Ordinance Gazette 
Notification dated December 26, 2014 for complete and accurate details].