PART A Welcome to Max Life Insurance

Date To

[Date of Issuance of Policy] 
 
 
 
 - 
 
G. O. Name: 
Policy no.: 
Telephone: 
Email id: 

Welcome Dear, Thank you for opting for Max Life Saral Jeevan Bima (A Non-linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan). We request you to go through the enclosed Policy contract.

What to do in case of errors

On examination of the Policy, if you notice any mistake or error, proceed as follows: 1. Contact our customer helpdesk or your agent immediately at the details mentioned below. 2. Return the Policy to us for rectifying the same.

Waiting Period This Policy will cover death due to accident only during the Waiting Period of 45 days from the Date of Commencement of Risk.

In case of the death of the Life Assured other than due to accident during the Waiting Period, an amount equal to 100% of all Premiums received excluding taxes, if any, shall be paid and the Sum Assured shall not be paid.

Cancelling the Policy

In case You are not satisfied with the Policy, you have the option to cancel it by returning the original copy with a written request, stating the objections/reasons for such disagreement, to us within the Free Look Period of fifteen (15) days (30 days if the Policy is an electronic policy or is purchased through distance marketing where distance marketing means through any means of communication other than in person) from the date of receiving the Policy Document.

Result: Upon return, the Policy will terminate forthwith and all rights, benefits and interests under the Policy will cease immediately. We will refund only the Premiums received by us after deducting the proportionate risk Premium for the period of cover, charges of stamp duty paid and the expenses incurred on medical examination of the Life Assured, if any.

Long term protection

We are committed to giving you honest advice and offering you long-term savings, protection and retirement solutions backed by the highest standards of customer service. We will be delighted to offer you any assistance or clarification you may require about your Policy or claim-related services at the address mentioned below. We look forward to being your partner for life.

Yours Sincerely, Max Life Insurance Company Limited [Signature] [Name of signing authority] [Designation of signing authority]

Agent’s name/ Intermediary name and Code: Mobile/Landline Telephone Number: Address:

Max Life Insurance Company Limited 
Plot No. 90A, Sector 18, Gurugram, 122015, Haryana, India 
Registered Office: Plot No. 419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, District Nawanshahr, Punjab -144 533 
Phone: 4219090 Fax: 4159397 (From Delhi and other cities: 0124) Customer Helpline: 1860 120 5577 
Visit Us at: www.maxlifeinsurance.com E-mail: service.helpdesk@maxlifeinsurance.com 
IRDAI Registration No: 104 
Corporate Identity Number: U74899PB2000PLC045626 

POLICY PREAMBLE

MAX LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED Regd. Office: 419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, District Nawanshahr, Punjab -144 533

Max Life Saral Jeevan Bima

A Non-linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan

UIN – [104N117V01]

Max Life Insurance Company Limited has entered into this contract of insurance on the basis of the information given in the proposal form together with the Premium deposit, statements, reports or other documents and declarations received from or on behalf of the Proposer for effecting a life insurance contract on the life of the person named in the Schedule.

We agree to pay the benefits under the Policy on the happening of the insured event, while the Policy is in force subject to the terms and conditions stated herein.

Max Life Insurance Company Limited

Place of Issuance: Gurugram, Haryana

POLICY SCHEDULE

Policy: Max Life Saral Jeevan Bima Type of Policy: A Non-linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan

UIN - [104N117V01] Office

| Policy No./ Proposal No.: Date of Proposal: | | | | | Client ID: |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policyholder: PAN: Identification Source & I.D No.: Relationship with Life Assured: Date of Birth: Address (For all communication purposes): | | | | | Gender: Male/Female/Transgender Tel No./Mobile No.: Email: |
| Life Insured: Date of Birth: Identification Source & I.D No.: Age: Address: | | | | | Gender: Male/Female/ Transgender |
| Nominee(s): Nominee(s) Name | Relationship of Nominee(s) with Policyholder | Date of Birth of Nominee | Age Gender % | share | Appointee (if Nominee is minor): |
| Date of Commencement of Risk: Date of Issuance of Policy: | | | | | Premium payment term variant: Single Premium Payment / Limited Premium Payment / Regular Premium Payment Premium Payment mode: |
| Premium Payment Method: Cheque Draw Date: | | | | | Bank Name: Bank Account Number: |
| Bank Account Details for Payouts Bank Name: | | | | | Bank Account Number: |
| Agent’s name/ Intermediary name: Agent’s code/ Intermediary code: Intermediary License No.: Email: Address: Mobile/Landline Telephone Number: Details of Sales Personnel (for direct sales only): | | | | | |

| | | Client ID: |
| --- | --- | --- |
| | | Gender: Male/Female/Transgender Tel No./Mobile No.: Email: |
| | | Gender: Male/Female/ Transgender |
| | share | Appointee (if Nominee is minor): |
| | | Premium payment term variant: Single Premium Payment / Limited Premium Payment / Regular Premium Payment Premium Payment mode: |
| Premium Payment Method: Cheque Draw Date: | | Bank Name: Bank Account Number: |
| Bank Account Details for Payouts Bank Name: | | Bank Account Number: |
| | | |

List of coverage

Date of Maturity

Basic Sum Assured (INR)

Policy Term (in years)

Premium 
Payment Term 
(in years) 

Annualised Premium

A (INR)

Underwriting Extra Premium

B (INR)

GST** and any other taxes, cesses & levies

C (INR)

Loading for modal Premium

D (INR)

Total Premium along 
with applicable taxes, 
cesses and levies payable 
as per Premium 
payment mode selected 

E=[(A+B+C) *D] (INR)

Due Date when 
Premium is 
payable; Date when 
the Last Premium 
is payable 

Base Policy dd/mm/yyyy

**GST includes IGST, SGST, CGST, UGST (whichever is applicable) and applicable cesses

Part – B DEFINITIONS

The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under: 
1. “Age” is the age of the Life Assured on the last birthday at the time of commencement of the Policy. 
2. “Annualized Premium” is the total amount of Premium payable in a Policy Year excluding taxes, Rider Premiums, Underwriting 
extra Premiums and loadings for modal Premiums, if any. 
3. “Appointee” is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable if the benefit becomes payable to 
the Nominee and Nominee is minor as on the date of claim payment. 
4. “Assignee” is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an Assignment. 
5. “Assignment” is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee,” in accordance with the provisions of Section 
38 of Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. 
6. “Assignor” means the person who transfers the rights of the life insurance Policy to the Assignee. 
7. “Base Policy” is that part of the Policy referring to basic benefit (benefits referred to in this Policy Document excluding benefits 
covered under Rider(s), if opted for). 
8. “Basic Sum Assured” means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder at the time of taking the Policy. 
9. “Beneficiary/Claimant” means the person who is entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. The Beneficiary may be Life 
Assured or Policyholder or his Assignee or Nominees or proved Executors or Administrators or other Legal Representatives as the 
case may be. 
10. “Business Day” or “Working Day” means the day on which the offices of the Company remain open for transactions with the 
public at the place where the concerned transaction is to be carried out. 
11. “Company” or “Corporation” means Max Life Insurance Company Limited. 
12. “Date of Commencement of Policy” is the start date of this Policy. 
13. “Date of Commencement of Risk” is the date on which the Company accepts the risk for insurance (cover) as evidenced in the 
Schedule of the Policy. 
14. “Date of Issuance of Policy” means the date as specified in the Policy Schedule. 
15. “Date of Maturity” means the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy Term is completed. 
16. “Death Benefit” means the benefit, agreed at the commencement of the contract, and means the amount as specified in the Policy 
bond and is payable on death of Life Assured as per the terms and conditions of the Policy. 
17. “Discharge Form” is the form to be filled by Policyholder/Claimant to claim the Death Benefit/refund under the Policy. 
18. “Due Date” (applicable in case of regular Premium / limited Premium payment) means a fixed date on which the Policy Premium 
is due and payable by the Policyholder. 
19. “Endorsement” means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any amendments or modifications agreed to or 
issued by the Company. 
20. “Free Look Period” is the period of 15 days (30 days if the Policy is an electronic Policy or is purchased through distance marketing 
where distance marketing means through any means of communication other than in person) from the date of receipt of the Policy 
Document by the Policyholder to review the terms and conditions of this Policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of 
those terms and conditions, he/ she has the option to return this Policy as detailed in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
21. “Grace Period” is the time granted by the insurer from the Due Date for the payment of Premium, without any penalty/ late fee, 
during which time the Policy is considered to be inforce with the insurance cover without any interruption as per the terms of the 
Policy. 
22. “Inforce Policy” means a Policy in which all the due Premiums have been paid and the Premiums are not outstanding. 
23. “IRDAI / Authority” means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. 
24. “Lapse” is the status of the Policy when due Premium is not paid within the Grace Period and the benefits under the Policy will 
cease from the date of such unpaid Premium. 
25. “Life Assured” is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted. 
26. “Material Information” is the information already known to the Life Assured at the time of applying for Life Insurance, which 
has a bearing on Underwriting of the proposal /Policy submitted. 
27. “Nomination” is the process of nominating a person(s) in accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as 
amended from time to time. 
28. “Nominee(s)” means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life Assured) under this Policy who is(are) 
authorized to receive the claim benefit payable under this Policy. 

29. “Non-Participating” means the Policy is not eligible for share of profit depending upon the Company’s experience. 30. “Policy Anniversary” means one year from the Date of Commencement of the Policy and the same date falling each year thereafter, till the Date of Maturity.

31. “Policy Cancellation” means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire Policy before the stipulated Date of Maturity. 
32. “Policy Cancellation Value” means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of cancellation in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this Policy. 
33. “Policy/ Policy Document” means this document along with Endorsements, if any, issued by the Company which evidences the 
contract of Insurance between the Policyholder and the Company. 
34. “Policyholder” is the legal owner of this Policy. 
35. “Policy Term” is the period, in years, as chosen by the Policyholder and mentioned in the Schedule, commencing from the Date 
of Commencement of Policy to the Date of Maturity. 
36. “Policy Year” is the period between two consecutive Policy anniversaries. This period includes the first day and excludes the next 
Policy Anniversary day. 
37. “Premium” is the contractual amount payable by the Policyholder at specified times periodically as mentioned in the Schedule of 
this Policy Document to secure the benefits under the Policy. The Premium payable will be “Total Single / Instalment Premium” 
which includes single / instalment Premium for Base Policy and instalment Premium for Rider(s), if Rider(s) has/have been opted 
for. The term ‘Premium’ used anywhere in this Policy Document does not include any taxes which are payable separately. 
38. “Premium Payment Term” means the period, in years, during which Premium is payable. 
39. “Proof of Continued Insurability” is the information that may be sought from the Policyholder to decide Revival of the Policy. 
This includes form of declaration of good health, medical reports, special reports and any such document as may be called for by 
the Company, in accordance with the board-approved Underwriting policy of the Company. 
40. “Proposer” is a person who proposes the life insurance proposal. 
41. “Revival” of a Policy means restoration of a lapsed Policy which was discontinued due to the non-payment of Premium, by the 
insurer with all the benefits mentioned in the Policy Document, with or without Rider benefits if any, upon the receipt of all the 
Premiums due and other charges/late fee, if any, as per the terms and conditions of the Policy, upon being satisfied as to the 
continued insurability of the insured/ Policyholder on the basis of the information, documents and reports furnished by the 
Policyholder, in accordance with the then existing board-approved Underwriting policy of the Company. 
42. “Revival Period” means the period of five consecutive years from the Due Date of first unpaid Premium or as is allowed under 
applicable Product Regulations, during which period the Policyholder is entitled to revive the Policy which was discontinued due 
to the non-payment of Premium. 
43. “Rider” is an add-on benefit which the Proposer has purchased separately in addition to basic benefits as specified under this Policy 
Document. 
44. “Rider Premium” is the Premium payable by the Policyholder which is in addition to the Premium paid under Base Policy towards 
the additional cover/benefit opted under the Rider, if opted. 
45. “Rider Sum Assured” is the assured amount payable on happening of a specified event covered under the Rider, if opted. 
46. “Schedule” is the part of Policy Document that gives the specific details of your Policy. 
47. “Sum Assured on Death” is the life insurance cover opted by the Proposer and is the absolute amount of benefit which is 
guaranteed to become payable on death of the Life Assured in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Policy, as mentioned 
in Condition 1 (a) of Part C of this Policy Document. 
48. “Surrender” means complete withdrawal / termination of the entire Policy before maturity. 
49. “Surrender Value” means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of Surrender in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of this Policy. 
50. “Underwriting” is the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and ensuring that the cost of the cover is proportionate 
to the risks faced by the individual concerned. Based on underwriting, a decision on acceptance or rejection of cover as well as 
applicability of suitable Premium or modified terms, if any, is taken. 
51. “UIN” means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this plan by the IRDAI. 
52. “Waiting Period” means a period of 45 (forty-five) days from the Date of Commencement of Risk. In case of Revival of Policy, 
the Waiting Period shall not be applicable. 

PART - C 
BENEFITS 
1) The following are the benefits under the Policy: 
a) Death Benefit: 
i) On death of the Life Assured during the Waiting Period and provided the Policy is in force, the Death Benefit amount payable 
as a lump sum is: 
1. In case of accidental death, for regular Premium or limited Premium payment Policy, equal to Sum Assured on Death 
which is the highest of: 
a. 10 times the Annualized Premium, or 
b. 105% of all Premiums paid as on the date of death, or 
c. Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
2. In case of accidental death, for single Premium Policy, equal to Sum Assured on Death which is the higher of: 
a. 125% of single Premium; or 
b. Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
3. In case of death due to other than accident, the Death Benefit is equal to 100% of all Premiums paid excluding taxes, if 
any. 
ii) On death of the Life Assured after the expiry of Waiting Period but before the stipulated Date of Maturity and provided the 
Policy is in force, the Death Benefit amount payable as a lump sum is: 
1. For regular Premium or limited Premium payment Policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is the highest of: 
a. 10 times of Annualized Premium; or 
b. 105% of all the Premiums paid as on the date of death; or 
c. Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
2. For single Premium Policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is the higher of: 
a. 125% of single Premium or 
b. Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
Premiums referred above shall not include any extra amount chargeable under the Policy due to Underwriting decision and 
Rider Premium(s), if any. 
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be an amount equal to Basic Sum Assured. 
b)Maturity Benefit: 
No Maturity Benefit shall be payable on the Life Assured surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity. 
c) Rider Benefits: 
No Rider will be applicable to this Policy. 
2) Payment of Premiums (applicable in case of limited and regular Premium payment Policies only): 
a) The Policyholder has to pay the Premium on or before the Due Dates as specified in the Schedule of this Policy Document along 
with applicable taxes, if any. 
b)In case of death of Life Assured under an Inforce Policy wherein all the Premiums due till the date of death have been paid and 
where the mode of payment of Premium is other than yearly, balance Premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and 
before the next Policy Anniversary shall be deducted from the claim amount. 
The Company does not have any obligation to issue a notice that Premium is due or for the amount that is due. 
3) Grace Period (applicable in case of limited and regular Premium payment Policies only): 
A Grace Period of 30 days where the mode of payment of Premium is yearly or half yearly and 15 days in case of monthly, is allowed 
for the payment of each renewal Premium. If the Premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses. 
If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the Grace Period but before the payment of the Premium then due, the Policy will still 
be valid and the benefits shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid Premium as also the balance Premium(s), if any, falling due 
from the date of death and before the next Policy Anniversary. 
The above Grace Period will also apply to Rider Premiums which are payable along with Premium for Base Policy. 
PART – D 
CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS 
1) Proof of Age: 
The Premiums under the Policy are calculated based on the Age of the Life Assured as declared in the Proposal. 
If the Age of the Life Assured has been misstated and if the correct Age of the Life Assured makes the Life Assured ineligible for this 
Policy, the Company may offer a suitable plan as per the then existing Underwriting norms. If the Life Assured does not wish to opt 
for the alternative plan or if it is not possible for the Company to grant any other plan, then the Policy shall be cancelled and the 
Premiums paid shall be refunded without interest, subject to deduction of stamp duty paid and the cost of medicals, if any. The Policy 
will terminate on the said payment. 
If the correct Age of the Life Assured makes the Life Assured eligible for this Policy, revised Premium depending upon the Correct 
Age will be payable. Difference of Premium from inception will be collected with interest, if Age declared is higher and excess 
Premium collected will be refunded without interest, if Age is found to be lower. 
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time shall be applicable. 
2) Free Look Period: 
a) This is an option to review the Policy following receipt of Policy Document. The Policyholder has a Free Look Period of 15 days 
(30 days in case of electronic policies and Policies obtained through distance mode) from the date of receipt of the Policy 
Document, to review the terms and conditions of the Policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and 
conditions, the Policyholder has the option to return the Policy to the Company for cancellation, stating the reasons for his 
objection, then the Policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of the Premium paid subject only to the deduction of a proportionate 
risk Premium for the period of cover and expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the Proposer and stamp 
duty charges. 
b) A request received by the Company for free look cancellation of the Policy shall be processed and Premium refunded within 15 
days of receipt of the request, as stated vide (a) above. 
c) The Policy shall terminate on payment of this amount and all rights, benefits and interests under this Policy will stand 
extinguished. 
3) Forfeiture provisions: 
a) In case of regular Premium and limited Premium payment Policies, if the Premium has not been paid in respect of this Policy 
and any subsequent Premium be not duly paid, all the benefits shall cease after the expiry of Grace Period from the date of first 
unpaid Premium and nothing shall be payable, and the Premiums paid till then are also not refundable. 
b) Forfeiture in Certain Other Events: In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be contravened or in case it is 
found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal, personal statement, declaration and connected 
documents or any Material Information is withheld, then and in every such case this Policy shall be void and all claims to any 
benefit by virtue hereof shall be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act , 1938, as amended from time to 
time. 
4) Revival of lapsed Policies (applicable for regular and limited Premium Payment Policies): 
a) If the Policy has lapsed due to non-payment of due Premium within the days of grace, it may be revived during the life time of 
the Life Assured, but within the Revival Period and before the Date of Maturity, as the case may be, on payment of all the arrears 
of Premium(s) together with interest at a rate which shall be determined as follows: 

No. of days between date of Revival and date of Lapse of Policy

Currently Applicable Revival Late Fee*

| | | Revival Late Fee Basis |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0-60 Nil 0.00% | | |
| | RBI Bank Rate + 1% p.a. compounded | annually on due Premiums |
| | RBI Bank Rate + 3% p.a. compounded | annually on due Premiums |

61-180

5.65% >180

7.65%

*Note: The current applicable Revival late fee is effective as on 1 st July 2020 and is based on RBI Bank rate of 4.65% p.a. prevailing as on 31 st March 2020. The ‘RBI Bank Rate’ for the financial year ending 31 st March (every year) will be considered for determining the Revival late fee and the same shall be made effective w.e.f. 01 st July every year. The Revival late fee is revised only if the ‘RBI Bank Rate’ changes by 1% or more from the ‘RBI Bank Rate’ used to determine the prevailing Revival late fee (reviewed on every 31st March). For further details and the Revival late fee applicable as on date, please refer to our website www.maxlifeinsurance.com. Any change in the basis of determination of interest rate shall be done only after prior approval of the Authority. b) In addition to the arrears of Premium with interest, Proof of Continued Insurability may be required for Revival of the discontinued Policy. The Company, however, reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with modified terms or decline the Revival of a discontinued Policy. The Revival of the discontinued Policy shall take effect only after the same is approved by the Company and is specifically communicated to the Policyholder.

c) If a lapsed Policy is not revived within the Revival Period but before the Date of Maturity, the Policy will automatically terminate. 
In case of regular Premium Policies, nothing shall be payable. However, in case of limited Premium payment Policies, the amount 
as payable in case of Surrender shall be refunded and the Policy will terminate. 
d) Revival of Rider, if opted for, will only be considered along with the Revival of the Base Policy and not in isolation. 
5) Surrender: Surrender Value is not applicable under this Policy. 
6) Policy Cancellation Value: 
Policy Cancellation Value shall be payable: 
a) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before the stipulated Date of Maturity in case of single Premium Policy; or 
b) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before the stipulated Date of Maturity or at the end of Revival Period if the Policy 
is not revived, in case of limited Premium payment Policies. 
c) The amount payable shall be as follows: 
i) Single Premium Policies: 
The Policy Cancellation Value acquires immediately after receipt of single Premium and is calculated as follows: 
= 70% × s × u 
o 
Single Premium shall be inclusive of extra Premium, if any. 
ii) Limited Premium Payment Term: 5 years or 10 years: 
The Policy Cancellation Value acquires if at least two (2) consecutive full years’ Premiums are paid and is calculated as 
follows: 
= 70% × t × u 
o 
Total Premiums Paid shall be inclusive of extra Premiums, if any. 
d) No Policy Cancellation Value shall be payable in respect of regular Premium Policies. 
7) Policy Loan: No loan will be available under this Policy 
8)Termination of Policy: 
The Policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: 
a) The date on which death benefit becomes payable; or 
b) The date on which refund, if applicable, is settled, in case of cancellation of Policy; or 
c) The Date of Maturity; or 
d) On expiry of Revival Period, if the Policy has not been revived; or 
e) On payment of free look cancellation amount. 

PART E CHARGES Not Applicable.

PART – F 
OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
1) Assignment: Assignment is allowed under this plan as per section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The 
current provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-1 of this Policy Document. The notice of Assignment should be submitted 
for registration to the office of the Company, where the Policy is serviced. 
2) Nomination: Nomination by the holder of a Policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per Section 39 of the Insurance 
Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 are contained in Annexure-2 of this Policy Document. 
The notice of Nomination or change of Nomination should be submitted for registration to the office of the Company, where the 
Policy is serviced. In registering Nomination, the Company does not accept any responsibility or express any opinion as to its validity 
or legal effect. 
3) Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938: The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time, shall 
be applicable. The current provisions are contained in Annexure-3 of this Policy Document. 
4) Suicide Exclusion: 
a) Under regular / limited Premium Policy: 
This Policy shall be void if the Life Assured commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the Date of Commencement of 
Risk, provided the Policy is Inforce or within 12 months from the date of Revival and the Company will not entertain any claim 
except for 80% of the Premiums paid (excluding any extra amount if charged under the Policy due to Underwriting decisions, 
taxes and Rider Premiums, if any) till the date of death. 
This clause shall not be applicable for a lapsed Policy as nothing is payable under such Policies. 
b) Under single Premium Policy: 
This Policy shall be void if the Life assured commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the Date of Commencement of 
Risk and the Company will not entertain any claim except 90 % of the single Premium paid excluding any extra amount if charged 
under the Policy due to Underwriting decisions and Rider Premiums, if any. 
5)Tax: 
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other constitutional tax Authority of India 
shall be as per the tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time. 
The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the Policyholder on Premiums (for Base Policy and 
Rider, if any) including extra amount if charged under the Policy due to Underwriting decisions, which shall be collected separately 
over and above in addition to the Premiums payable by the Policyholder. 
The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan. 
The tax benefits may be available as per prevailing tax laws. The Policyholder or the Nominee shall be liable for compliance of 
applicable tax provisions. 
6) Normal requirements for a claim: 
a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the Claimant shall submit while lodging the claim in case of death of the Life Assured 
shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the Company, accompanied with original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the 
Claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account, proof of title, proof of death, medical treatment prior to the 
death (if any), school/ college/ employer's certificate, whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Company. If the Age is 
not admitted under the Policy, the proof of age of the Life assured shall also be submitted. 
In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an accident, the Company may call for the copies of First 
Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post Mortem report. The Company may also call for additional documents as may be 
required by them. 
Within 90 days from the date of death, intimation of death along with death certificate must be notified in writing to the office 
of the Company where the Policy is serviced. However, delay in intimation of the genuine claim by the Claimant, may be 
condoned by the Company, on merit, and where delay is proved to be for the reasons beyond his/her control. 
b) Policy Cancellation: In case of cancellation of the Policy, the Policyholder shall submit the Discharge Form along with the 
original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the Claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account. 
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be required as per law shall also be 
required to be submitted. 
7)Issuance of duplicate Policy: The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy on payment of Rs. 250/- upon loss of 
Policy Document along with other requirements as may be prescribed by the Company. 
8) Jurisdiction: 
The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle any disputes arising under the 
Policy. 
9)Legislative Changes: 
The terms and conditions including the Premiums and benefits payable under this Policy are subject to variation in accordance with 
the applicable laws and regulations. 

PART – G 
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM 
1) Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 
1.1. All consumer grievances and/or queries may be first addressed to your agent or our customer helpdesk as mentioned below: 
a. Max Life Insurance Company Limited, Plot 90A, Sector 18, Gurugram, 122015, Haryana, India, Helpline No. – 1860 120 
5577, Email: service.helpdesk@maxlifeinsurance.com; or 
b. Any office of Max Life Insurance Company Limited. 
1.2. If our response is not satisfactory or there is no response within 15 (Fifteen) days, the complainant may file a written complaint 
with full details of the complaint and the complainant’s contact information to the following official for resolution: 
Greivance Redressal Officer, 
Max Life Insurance Company Limited 
Plot No. 90A, Sector 18, Gurugram, 122015, Haryana, India 
Helpline No. – 1860 120 5577 or (0124) 4219090 
Email: manager.services@maxlifeinsurance.com 
1.3. Grievance Redressal Mechanism of IRDAI: 
In case the Policyholder is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from the Company within 15 days, then 
the customer may approach the Grievance Cell of the IRDAI through any of the following modes: 
● Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre) 
● Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in 
● Register the complaint online at http://www.igms.irdai.gov.in 
● Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter: 
Consumer Affairs Department, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Survey No.115/1, Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad-500032, Telangana. 
1.4. Ombudsman: 
For redressal of Claims related grievances, Claimants can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who provides for low cost, speedy 
arbitration to customers. 
The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider complaints or disputes relating to the matters 
such as: 
(a) Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India Act, 1999 
(b) Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health insurer; 
(c) Disputes over Premium paid or payable in terms of insurance Policy; 
(d) Misrepresentation of Policy terms and conditions at any time in the Policy Document or Policy contract; 
(e) Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the dispute relates to claim; 
(f) Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries; 
(g) Issuance of life insurance Policy, general insurance Policy including health insurance Policy which is not in conformity with 
the proposal form submitted by the Proposer; 
(h) Non-issuance of insurance Policy after receipt of Premium in life insurance and general insurance including health insurance; 
and 
(i) Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time, or the 
regulations, circulars, guidelines or instructions issued by IRDAI from time to time or the terms and conditions of the Policy 
contract, in so far as they relate to issues mentioned at clauses (a) to (f). 

Details of existing offices of the Insurance Ombudsman AHMEDABAD - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor, Jeevan Prakash Bldg, Tilak Marg, Relief Road,Ahmedabad-380 001. Tel.:- 079-25501201/02/05/06 Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@gbic.co.in. (State of Gujarat and Union Territories of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.) BENGALURU -Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Soudha Bldg., PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,JP Nagar, 1st Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. Tel.: 080-26652049/26652048 Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in. (State of Karnataka)

BHOPAL - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Janak Vihar Complex, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New 
Market, Bhopal(M.P.)-462 003. Tel.:- 0755-2769201/2769202 Fax : 0755-2769203 Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in (States of 
Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh.) 
BHUBANESHWAR - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Forest Park, Bhubaneshwar-751 009. Tel.:- 0674-2596461/2596455 
Fax : 0674-2596429 Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in (State of Orissa.) 
CHANDIGARH - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No.101, 102 & 103,2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 17-D, 
Chandigarh-160017. Tel.:- 0172-2706468/2706196 Fax : 0172-2708274 Email:bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in (States of Punjab, 
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Union territory of Chandigarh.) 
CHENNAI- Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fathima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453 , Anna Salai, Teynampet, Chennai-600 
018.Tel.:- 044-24333668 /24335284 Fax : 044-24333664 Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in [State of Tamil Nadu and Union 
Territories - Pondicherry Town and Karaikal (which are part of Union Territory of Pondicherry).] 
DELHI- Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building., Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi-110 002. Tel.:- 011- 
23232481/23213504Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in (State of Delhi) 
ERNAKULAM- Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M.G. Road, Ernakulam-682 
015. Tel : 0484-2358759/2359338 Fax : 0484-2359336 Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in (State of Kerala and Union Territory 
of (a) Lakshadweep (b) Mahe-a part of Union Territory of Pondicherry.) 
GUWAHATI - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, “Jeevan Nivesh”, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati-781 
001(ASSAM) Tel.:- 0361-2632204/2602205 Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in (States of Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, 
Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura.) 
HYDERABAD - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6-2-46, 1st Floor, Moin Court, Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, A.C. Guards, 
Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad-500 004. Tel : 040-67504123/23312122 Fax: 040-23376599 Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in 
(State of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Yanam and part of the Union Territory of Pondicherry.) 
JAIPUR- Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Ground Floor, Jeevan Nidhi II Bldg, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur – 302005 Tel : 0141- 
2740363 Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in (State of Rajasthan) 
KOLKATA - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan Building. Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, Kolkata-700 072. Tel : 
033-22124339/22124340 Fax : 033-22124341 Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in (States of West Bengal, Sikkim, and Union 
Territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.) 
LUCKNOW- Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-2, Nawal Kishore Road, Hazaratganj, Lucknow 
226 001. Tel : 0522 -2231331/2231330 Fax : 0522-2231310 Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in (Following Districts of Uttar 
Pradesh: Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, 
Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.) 

MUMBAI - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S.V. Road, Santacruz(W), Mumbai 400054. Tel : 022-26106960/26106552 Fax : 022-26106052 Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in (State of Goa and Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi Mumbai and Thane) NOIDA - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,4th Floor, Bhagwan Sahai Palace,Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector-15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P. - 201301.Tel: 0120-2514250/2514252/2514253 Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in (State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.)

PATNA - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna – 800006, 
Tel No: 0612-2680952, Email id : bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in (State of Bihar, Jharkhand.) 
PUNE - Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,3rd Floor, Jeevan Darshan Bldg, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan 
peth, Pune – 411030. Tel: 020-41312555 Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in (State of Maharashtra including Navi Mumbai and Thane 
and excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.) 
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions and special provisions/conditions the English version 
shall stand valid. 
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY DOCUMENT, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND THEREIN, RETURN 
IT IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION. 

Annexure 1 to Policy Bond

Section 45 – Policy shall not be called in question on the ground of mis-statement after three years Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time are as follows: 1.No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after expiry of 3 yrs from a. the date of issuance of policy or b. the date of commencement of risk or c.the date of revival of policy or d. the date of rider to the policy, whichever is later. 2.On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in question within 3 years from a. thedate of issuance of policy or b.the date of commencement of risk or c.the date of revival of policy or d. the date of rider to the policy, whichever is later. For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which such decision is based. 3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy: a.The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true;b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact; c.Any other act fitted to deceive; and d.Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be fraudulent. 4.Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of the case, it is the duty of the insured or his agent keeping silence to speak or silence is in itself equivalent to speak. 5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud, if the insured / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. Onus of disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or beneficiaries. 6.Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to expectancy of life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document basis which policy was issued or revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based.7.In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on fraud, the premium collected on policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, within a period of 90 days from the date of repudiation.8.Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus is on insurer to show that if the insurer had been aware of the said fact, no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured.9.The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. So, this Section will not be applicable for questioning age or adjustment based on proof of age submitted subsequently. [Disclaimer: This is only a simplified version prepared for general information. You are advised to refer to the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time for complete and accurate details.]

Annexure 2 to the Policy Bond

Section 39 - Nomination by Policyholder 
Nomination of a life insurance policy is as below in accordance with Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to 
time. The extant provisions in this regard are as follows:1.The policyholder of a life insurance policy on his own life may nominate a 
person or persons to whom money secured by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death.2.Where the nominee is a minor, the 
policyholder may appoint any person to receive the money secured by the policy in the event of policyholder’s death during the minority 
of the nominee. The manner of appointment is to be laid down by the insurer. 3.Nomination can be made at any time before the maturity 
of the policy. 4.Nomination may be incorporated in the text of the policy itself or may be endorsed on the policy communicated to the 
insurer and can be registered by the insurer in the records relating to the policy.5.Nomination can be cancelled or changed at any time 
before policy matures, by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will as the case may be. 6.A notice in writing of change or 
cancellation of nomination must be delivered to the insurer for the insurer to be liable to such nominee. Otherwise, insurer will not be 
liable if a bonafide payment is made to the person named in the text of the policy or in the registered records of the insurer.7.Fee to be 
paid to the insurer for registering change or cancellation of a nomination can be specified by the Authority through Regulations.8.On 
receipt of notice with fee, the insurer should grant a written acknowledgement to the policyholder of having registered a nomination or 
cancellation or change thereof. 9.A transfer or assignment made in accordance with Section 38 shall automatically cancel the nomination 
except in case of assignment to the insurer or other transferee or assignee for purpose of loan or against security or its reassignment after 
repayment. In such case, the nomination will get affected to the extent of insurer’s or transferee’s or assignee’s interest in the policy. 
The nomination will get revived on repayment of the loan.10.The right of any creditor to be paid out of the proceeds of any policy of 
life insurance shall not be affected by the nomination.11.In case of nomination by policyholder whose life is insured, if the nominees die 
before the policyholder, the proceeds are payable to policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives or holder of succession 
certificate.12.In case nominee(s) survive the person whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be paid to such 
survivor(s). 13.Where the policyholder whose life is insured nominates hia.parents or b.spouse or c.children ord.spouse and childrene.or 
any of them, the nominees are beneficially entitled to the amount payable by the insurer to the policyholder unless it is proved that 
policyholder could not have conferred such beneficial title on the nominee having regard to the nature of his title.14. If nominee(s) 
die after the policyholder but before his share of the amount secured under the policy is paid, the share of the expired nominee(s) shall 
be payable to the heirs or legal representative of the nominee or holder of succession certificate of such nominee(s). 15.The provisions 
of sub-section 7 and 8 (13 and 14 above) shall apply to all life insurance policies maturing for payment after the commencement of 
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act 2015.16.If policyholder dies after maturity but the proceeds and benefit of the policy has not been 
paid to him because of his death, his nominee(s) shall be entitled to the proceeds and benefit of the policy.17.The provisions of Section 
39 are not applicable to any life insurance policy to which Section 6 of Married Women’s Property Act, 1874 applies or has at any time 
applied except where before or after Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time, a nomination is made in favour of spouse or 
children or spouse and children whether or not on the face of the policy it is mentioned that it is made under Section 39. Where nomination 
is intended to be made to spouse or children or spouse and children under Section 6 of MWP Act, it should be specifically mentioned on 
the policy. In such a case only, the provisions of Section 39 will not apply. 
[Disclaimer: This is only a simplified version prepared for general information. You are advised to refer to the Insurance Act 1938 
as amended from time to time for complete and accurate details.] 

Annexure 3 to the Policy Bond

Section 38 - Assignment and Transfer of Insurance Policies 
Assignment or transfer of a policy should be in accordance with Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 
The extant provisions in this regard are as follows:1.This policy may be transferred/assigned, wholly or in part, with or without 
consideration.2.An Assignment may be effected in a policy by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument under 
notice to the Insurer.3. The instrument of assignment should indicate the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons for the 
assignment or transfer, antecedents of the assignee and terms on which assignment is made.4.The assignment must be signed by the 
transferor or assignor or duly authorized agent and attested by at least one witness.5.The transfer or assignment shall not be operative as 
against an insurer until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument itself or copy there 
of certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised agents have been delivered to the insurer.6.Fee to be 
paid for assignment or transfer can be specified by the Authority through Regulations.7.On receipt of notice with fee, the insurer should 
Grant a written acknowledgement of receipt of notice. Such notice shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer of duly receiving the 
notice.8.If the insurer maintains one or more places of business, such notices shall be delivered only at the place where the policy is 
being serviced.9.The insurer may accept or decline to act upon any transfer or assignment or endorsement, if it has sufficient reasons to 
believe that it is a.not bonafide;b.not in the interest of the policyholder;c.not in public interest; or d.is for the purpose of trading of the 
insurance policy.10.Before refusing to act upon endorsement, the insurer should record the reasons in writing and communicate the same 
in writing to policyholder within 30 days from the date of policyholder giving a notice of transfer or assignment.11.In case of refusal to 
act upon the endorsement by the insurer, any person aggrieved by the refusal may prefer a claim to IRDAI within 30 days of receipt of 
the refusal letter from the insurer.12.The priority of claims of persons interested in an insurance policy would depend on the date on 
which the notices of assignment or transfer is delivered to the insurer; where there are more than one instruments of transfer or 
assignment, the priority will depend on dates of delivery of such notices. Any dispute in this regard as to priority should be referred to 
the Authority.13.Every assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be absolute assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee shall 
be deemed to be absolute assignee or transferee, except a.where assignment or transfer is subject to terms and conditions of transfer or 
assignment OR b.where the transfer or assignment is made upon condition that i.the proceeds under the policy shall become payable to 
policyholder or nominee(s) in the event of assignee or transferee dying before the insured; orii.the insured surviving the term of the 
policy.Such conditional assignee will not be entitled to obtain a loan on policy or surrender the policy. This provision will prevail 
notwithstanding any law or custom having force of law which is contrary to the above position.14In other cases, the insurer shall, subject 
to terms and conditions of assignment, recognize the transferee or assignee named in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee 
and such persona shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor was subject to at the date of transfer or 
assignment;b.may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy; andc.obtain loan under the policy or surrender the policy without 
obtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor or making him a party to the proceedings15.Any rights and remedies of an assignee 
or transferee of a life insurance policy under an assignment or transfer effected before commencement of the Insurance Laws 
(Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be affected by this section. 
[Disclaimer: This is only a simplified version prepared for general information. You are advised to refer to the Insurance Act, 1938 
as amended from time to time for complete and accurate details 

