CANARA HSBC ORIENTAL BANK OF COMMERCE LIFE INSURANCE
A Non-Linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan
Saral Jeevan
Bima
LIFE INSURANCE AT
AFFORDABLE PRICE
MULTIPLE PREMIUM 
PAYMENT OPTIONS
EASY TO
UNDERSTAND 
KEY FEATURES
SECURING YOUR LOVED ONES' FUTURE IS NOW EASIER AND
 MORE AFFORDABLE THAN EVER WITH OUR SARAL JEEVAN BIMA
 LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE YEAR 2020*
UIN:136N075V01 MISCNJSJBCHOJAN21 ENG
Trade Logo of Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited (Insurer) is used under license with Canara Bank, HSBC Group Management Services Limited and Oriental Bank of 
Commerce. The Insurance products are offered and underwritten by Insurer (IRDAI Regn. No. 136) having its head office at 2nd Floor, Orchid Business Park, Sector-48, Sohna Road, Gurugram - 122018, Haryana (India). 
For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions, please read the sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. Corporate Identity No.: U66010DL2007PLC248825. Website: www.canarahsbclife.com. Call: 
1800-103-0003/1800-180-0003 (BSNL/MTNL). Give a missed call to: 0124-6156600. SMS: 9779030003. Email: customerservice@canarahsbclife.in
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS/FRAUD PHONE CALLS !
• IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are 
 requested to lodge a police complaint.
*In March 2020 Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance has been conferred with "Life Insurance Company of the Year" at India Insurance Summit and Awards 2020.** T&C apply.
11 ,1 Sabse Pehle W Life Insurance 
EEPING YOU 
PROMISES 
HAS NEVER BEEN EASIER. 
~ 
~~ 
~ Canara HSBC ID 
~ OBC 
Life Insurance 
----
CANARA HSBC ORIENTAL BANK OF COMMERCE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
REGISTRATION NUMBER : 136
CANARA HSBC ORIENTAL BANK OF COMMERCE LIFE INSURANCE SARAL JEEVAN BIMA (UIN: 136N075V01)
A Non-Linked Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan
DATE:
PART A
WELCOME LETTER
{{OWNER_NAME}}
{{FATHERS_NAME/HUSBAND NAME}}
{{PO_M_ADD_1}}
{{PO_M_ADD_2}}
{{PO_M_ADD_3}}
{{PO_M_ADD_CITY}} -
{{PO_M_ADD_STATE}}{{PO_M_ADD_PINCODE}}
{{PO_M_ADD_COUNTRY}}
Contact No.: {{OWNER_CONTACT}}
Client ID.
Policy No.
Proposal No.
Your Policy Details: Your Representative Details:
{{OWNER_CLIENT_ID}}
{{POLICY_NUMBER}}
{{PROPOSAL_NUMBER}}
Name
Code
Contact No.
{{AGENT_NAME}}
{{AGENT_CODE}}
{{AGENT_CONTACT}}
Dear {{Owner_name}},
Welcome to the Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance family. We would like to 
congratulate You on purchasing Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Saral Jeevan 
Bima.
This document is Your Policy Document and We recommend that You read it to ascertain if the details are 
accurate. If You wish to rectify any of the details provided by You, please get in touch with our Resolution 
center: 1800-103–0003 / 1800-180-0003 (BSNL/MTNL users) or your representative. You can also SMS Us 
at 9779030003 or write to Us at customerservice@canarahsbclife.in and our representative will contact You 
at your convenience.
In case the Policy terms and conditions are not agreeable to You then You can opt for a cancellation of the 
Policy by sending back this Policy Document along with the reason for non-acceptance to the Company 
within 15 days (30 days in case the Policy is sourced through distance marketing mode i.e. any means of 
communication other than in person) from the date of receipt of this Policy Document. In case You opt for 
cancellation within the said period, We shall refund the Premium received by Us subject only to deduction 
of the proportionate risk Premium for the period of life cover, stamp duty and medical expenses (if any). 
This facility can be availed only on receipt of the original Policy Document and not on receipt of duplicate 
Policy Document(s) issued by the Company on your request.
This Policy will cover death due to accident only during the Waiting Period of 45 days from the date of 
commencement of risk.
In case of death of the Life Assured other than due to Accident during the Waiting Period, an amount 
equal to 100% of Total Premiums Paid shall be paid and the Sum Assured shall not be paid. 
We also offer an easy-to-navigate online system to manage Your Policy. Log on to our website 
www.canarahsbclife.com and register to start using this service.
In case of any claim related or other matters, You or the Claimant may contact Us at Canara HSBC Oriental 
Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited, 2nd Floor, Orchid Business Park, Sector-48, Sohna Road, 
Gurugram 122018, Haryana, India. You can also get in touch with Us on 1800-103-0003 /1800-180-0003 
(BSNL/MTNL) or SMS Us at 9779030003 or write to Us at customerservice@canarahsbclife.in
We request You to pay Your Premiums on due dates to enjoy uninterrupted benefits under the Policy. Thank 
You for giving Us the opportunity to service Your insurance needs and We will ensure We are here to fulfill 
all Your Policy servicing needs.
Yours Sincerely,
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
CANARA HSBC ORIENTAL BANK OF COMMERCE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
The Company shall pay benefits upon occurrence of one or more events mentioned in this Policy on receipt 
of proof that is satisfactory to the Company.
* These figures are assuming happening of event at policy inception. 
1
Goods and Services Tax or any other levy by whatever name called under Goods and Services Tax Scheme 
as applicable from time to time, will be charged over and above this Premium and will be borne by the 
Policyholder.
Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Saral Jeevan Bima is a Non-Linked 
Non-Participating Individual Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan
POLICY SCHEDULE
POLICY SCHEDULE DETAILS
Benefit Coverage Details
Name
Date of Birth
Age
Gender
Working Status
Life Assured Details Policyholder Details
{{ASSURED_NAME}}
{{ASSURED_BIRTH_DATE}}
{{ASSURED_AGE}}
{{ASSURED_GENDER}}
 -
{{PROPOSER_NAME}}
{{ PROPOSER _BIRTH_DATE}
{{ PROPOSER _AGE}}
{{ PROPOSER _GENDER}}
Policy Number
Plan Name
Plan Type
Policy Term (Years)
Premium Payment Term (Years)
Instalment Premium1
/ Single Premium1
Age Admitted (Life Assured)
Risk Commencement Date
Policy Commencement Date
Maturity Date
Premium Payment Mode
Next Premium Due Date
Last Premium Due Date
{{POLICY_NUMBER}}
{{PLAN NAME}}
Life/Individual/ Non-Linked/ Non-Par/Pure Risk
{{POLICY_TERM}}
{{PREMIUM_PAYMENT_TERM}}
{{INSTALMENT_PREMIUM}}
{{AGE_ADMITTED (LIFE ASSURED)}}
{{SAME AS POLICY_COMMENCEMENT_DATE}}
{{POLICY_COMMENCEMENT_DATE}}
{{MATURITY_DATE}}
{{POLICY_PAYMENT_FREQUENCY}}
{{NEXT_PREMIUM_DUE_DATE}}
{{LAST_PREMIUM_DUE_DATE}}
Sum Assured (Rs.)
Death Benefit* (Rs.)
Life Assured 
 
 
"On Examination of the Policy, if the Policyholder notices any mistake, the Policy Document is to be 
returned for correction to the Company; for electronic policies, the process as prescribed by applicable 
laws to be followed".
Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Registration no: 136 
Registered Office: Unit No. 208, 2nd Floor, Kanchenjunga Building, 18 Barakhamba Road, New Delhi-110001. India
Corporate Office: 2nd Floor, Orchid Business Park, Sector-48, Sohna Road, Gurugram 122018, Haryana, India
NOMINEE DETAILS*
{{NOMINEE_NAME_1}}
{{NOMINEE_NAME_2}}
Name Gender Age Percentage Relationship with
Life Assured
{{NOMINEE_GENDER_1}}
{{NOMINEE_GENDER_2}}
{{AGE IN YEARS}}
{{AGE IN YEARS}}
{{R’SHIP}}
{{R’SHIP }}
*Nominee details under Section 39 of Insurance Act, 1938.
Appointee Name (in case Nominee is minor) {{APPOINTEE_NAME}}
Appointee Gender {{APPOINTEE_GENDER}}
Appointee Relationship with Life Assured {{APPOINTEE_RELATIONSHIP}}
Total Amount Payable for the Policy is equal to sum of Base Premium Payable, underwriting extra Premium 
if any and applicable Goods and Services Tax or any other levy by whatever name called under Goods and 
Services Tax Scheme. You may be entitled to tax benefits under Section 80C as per the Income Tax Act, 
1961. Tax benefits under the Policy will be as per the prevailing Income Tax laws and are subject to 
amendments from time to time. For tax related queries, please contact Your independent tax advisor.
The excess amount, if any, indicated as Balance Amount above will not earn any interest and will be 
adjusted towards future Premiums on the due date subject to applicable laws. Advance premiums paid, if 
any, will be appropriated towards Premium on the respective due dates.
Receipt Number:
FIRST PREMIUM RECEIPT
Name of the Company
Hub Address
Goods and Services Tax Identification Number
HSN Code
Plan Name
Policy Number
Policyholder Name
Policyholder Current Residential Address
Policyholder State/ Union Territory & Code
Goods and Services Tax Identification Number
Life Assured Name
Premium Payment Mode
Sum Assured 
{{NAME OF THE COMPANY}}
{{HUB ADDRESS}}
{{GOODS AND SERVICES TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF HUB}}
{{ACCOUNTING SERVICE CODE}}
{{PLAN_NAME}}
{{POLICY_NUMBER}}
{{Name of the Policyholder}}
{{POLICY HOLDER CURRENT RESIDENTIAL ADDRESS}
{{POLICY HOLDER STATE & CODE}}
{{GOODS AND SERVICES TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER}}
{{Name of Life Assured}}
{{Premium payment frequency}}
{{Sum Assured }}
Date of Issue:
Payment Related Information
Base Premium Payable (`)
Underwriting Extra Premiums, if any (`)
Goods and Services Tax * (`)
Total Amount Payable (`)
Total Amount Received (`)
Balance Amount (`)
Next Premium Due Date
*Break-up of Goods and Services Tax on Base
Premium and Underwriting Extra Premiums, If any
Central Goods and Services Tax
State Goods and Services Tax/ Union Territory
Goods and Services Tax
Integrated Goods and Services Tax
Cess (es)/Other levy
(%) Rate (`) Amount
Permanent Account Number AADCC1881F.
"Goods and Services Tax as above is not payable on reverse charge basis" 
"Address of Delivery is same as that of place of supply’"
The commencement of risk under the Policy is subject to realization of Premium by the Company.
 
Chief Operating Officer
ENDORSEMENTS
Total Stamp Value (Rs.) / {{STAMP_DUTY}}
“The appropriate stamp duty towards this Policy is paid vide < >"
Preamble: This Policy evidences a contract between the Policyholder and the Company which has been issued on 
the basis of Your statements and declarations in the Proposal Form and other documents evidencing insurability 
of the Life Assured. This is an individual, non-linked, non-par, pure risk premium, life insurance plan which enables 
the Claimant to receive benefits subject to the terms and conditions stated herein. This Policy Document is divided 
into numbered clauses for ease of reference and reading. The Clause headings do not limit the Policy or its 
interpretation in any way. Reference to any legislation, Act, regulation, guideline, etc includes subsequent changes 
or amendments to the same. The terms ‘You’, ‘Your’ used in this document refer to the Policyholder and ‘We’, ‘Us’, 
‘Company’, ‘Our’ refer to Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited. 
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death of the Life Assured is the Sum Assured chosen by the 
Policyholder at the inception of the Policy.
Accident means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, violent and visible means 
which occurs after the risk commencement date of the Policy and before the termination of the Policy.
Accidental Death means death of the Life Assured which results directly and solely from an Accident and 
independently of any other causes.
Age is the age of the Life Assured on the last birthday at the time of commencement of the Policy.
Annualized Premium is the total amount of premium payable in a Policy Year excluding taxes, rider 
premiums, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal premiums, if any.
Appointee is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable if the benefits 
becomes payable to the nominee and nominee is minor as on the date of claim payment.
Assignee is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an Assignment.
Assignment is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee,” in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 38 of Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time.
Assignor means the person who transfers the rights of the life insurance policy to the Assignee.
Base Policy is that part of the Policy referring to basic benefit (benefits referred to in this Policy Document 
excluding benefits covered under Rider(s), if opted for).
Sum Assured means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder at the time of taking 
the policy.
Beneficiary/Claimant means the person who is entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. The Beneficiary 
may be Life Assured or Policyholder or his Assignee or Nominees or proved Executors or Administrators or 
the other Legal Representatives as the case may be.
Business Day or Working Day means the day on which the offices of the Company remain open for 
transactions with the public at the place where the concerned transaction is to be carried out.
Company or Corporation means Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited
Date of commencement of Policy is the start date of this Policy
Date of commencement of risk is the date on which the Company accepts the risk for insurance (cover) as 
evidenced in the Schedule of the Policy.
Date of issuance of Policy means the date as specified in the Policy Schedule.
Date of Maturity means the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy Term is completed.
Death Benefit means the benefit, agreed at the commencement of the contract, and means the amount as 
specified in the Policy Bond and is payable on death of Life Assured as per the terms and conditions of the 
Policy.
Discharge form/ Claim intimation form is the form to be filled by Policyholder/Claimant to claim the death 
benefit/refund under the Policy.
Due Date (applicable in case of Regular Premium / Limited Premium Payment) means a fixed date on which 
the Policy Premium is due and payable by the Policyholder.
Endorsement means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any amendments or 
modifications agreed to or issued by the Company.
Free Look Period is the period of 15 days (30 days if the Policy is an electronic policy or is purchased through 
Distance Marketing where distance marketing means through any means of communication other than in 
person) from the date of receipt of the Policy Document by the Policyholder to review the terms and 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
PART B – DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under:
conditions of this policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and conditions, he/she 
has the option to return this Policy as detailed in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy Document.
Grace Period is the time granted by the insurer from the due date for the payment of Premium, without any 
penalty/late fee, during which time the Policy is considered to be inforce with the insurance cover without 
any interruption as per the terms of the Policy.
Inforce Policy means a Policy in which all the due Premiums have been paid and the Premiums are not 
outstanding.
IRDAI / Authority means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
Lapse is the status of the Policy when due Premium is not paid within the Grace Period and the benefits 
under the Policy will cease from the date of such unpaid Premium.
Life Assured is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted.
Material information is the information already known to the Life Assured at the time of applying for Life 
Insurance, which has a bearing on underwriting of the proposal /Policy submitted.
Nomination is the process of nominating a person(s) in accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the 
Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time.
Nominee(s) means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life Assured) under this 
Policy who is(are) authorised to receive the claim benefit payable under this Policy.
Non-Participating means the Policy is not eligible for share of profit depending upon the Company’s 
experience.
Policy Anniversary means one year from the Date of Commencement of the Policy and the same date falling 
each year thereafter, till the Date of Maturity.
Policy Cancellation means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire Policy before the stipulated 
Date of Maturity.
Policy Cancellation Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of cancellation in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Policy.
Policy/ Policy Document means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the Company 
which evidences the contract of Insurance between the Policyholder and the Company.
Policyholder is the legal owner of this Policy.
Policy Term is the period, in years, as chosen by the Policyholder and mentioned in the Schedule, 
commencing from the Date of Commencement of Policy to the Date of Maturity.
Policy year is the period between two consecutive Policy Anniversaries. This period includes the first day and 
excludes the next Policy Anniversary day.
Premium is the contractual amount payable by the Policyholder at specified times periodically as mentioned 
in the Schedule of this Policy Document to secure the benefits under the Policy. The Premium payable will 
be “Total Single / Instalment Premium” which includes single/instalment Premium for Base Policy and 
instalment Premium for Rider(s), if rider(s) has/have been opted for. The term “Premium” used anywhere in 
this Policy Document does not include any taxes which are payable separately.
Premium Paying Term means the period, in years, during which Premium is payable.
Proof of continued insurability is the information that may be sought from the Policyholder to decide Revival 
of the Policy. This includes Form of declaration of Good Health, Medical Reports, Special Reports and any 
such document as may be called for by the Company, in accordance with the Board Approved Underwriting 
Policy of the Company.
Proposer is a person who proposes the life insurance proposal.
Revival of a Policy means restoration of a lapsed Policy which was discontinued due to the non-payment of 
Premium, by the insurer with all the benefits mentioned in the Policy Document, with or without rider 
benefits if any, upon the receipt of all the Premiums due and other charges/late fee, if any, as per the terms 
and conditions of the Policy, upon being satisfied as to the continued insurability of the Insured/Policyholder 
on the basis of the information, documents and reports furnished by the Policyholder, in accordance with 
the then existing Board Approved Underwriting Policy of the Company.
Revival Period means the period of five consecutive years from the due date of first unpaid Premium or as is 
allowed under applicable Product Regulations, during which period the Policyholder is entitled to revive the 
Policy which was discontinued due to the non-payment of Premium.
Schedule is the part of Policy Document that gives the specific details of Your Policy.
Single Premium is the total amount of Premium payable at outset, excluding the corresponding taxes, rider 
premiums and underwriting extra premiums, if any.
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
Sum Assured on Death is the life insurance cover opted by the Proposer and is the absolute amount of 
benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on death of the Life Assured in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the Policy, as mentioned in Condition 1 (a) of Part C of this Policy Document.
Surrender means complete withdrawal / termination of the entire Policy before maturity.
Surrender value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of Surrender in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of this Policy.
Total Premiums Paid means total of all the premiums received, excluding rider premiums and taxes.
Underwriting is the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and ensuring that the cost of the 
cover is proportionate to the risks faced by the individual concerned. Based on underwriting, a decision on 
acceptance or rejection of cover as well as applicability of suitable premium or modified terms, if any, is 
taken.
UIN means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this plan by the IRDAI.
Waiting Period means a period of 45 (forty five) days from the Date of Commencement of Risk. In case of 
revival of Policy, the Waiting Period shall not be applicable.
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
The following are the benefits under the policy:
a) Death Benefit:
 i) On death of the Life Assured during the Waiting Period and provided the Policy is in force, the Death 
 Benefit amount payable as a lump sum is:
 (1) In case of Accidental Death, for Regular Premium or Limited Premium Payment Policy, equal to 
 Sum Assured on Death which is the highest of:
 (a) 10 times the Annualized Premium, or
 (b) 105% of Total Premiums paid as on the date of death, or
 (c) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
 (2) In case of Accidental Death, for Single Premium Policy, equal to Sum Assured on Death which is 
 the higher of:
 (a) 125% of Single Premium or
 (b) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
 (3) In case of death due to other than Accident, the Death Benefit is equal to 100% of Total 
 Premiums paid as on the date of death.
 ii) On death of the Life Assured after the expiry of Waiting Period but before the stipulated date of 
 maturity and provided the Policy is in force, the Death Benefit amount payable as a lump sum is:
 (1) For Regular Premium or Limited Premium Payment Policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is the 
 highest of:
 (a) 10 times of Annualized Premium; or
 (b) 105% of Total Premiums Paid as on the date of death; or
 (c) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
 (2) For Single Premium policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is the higher of:
 (a) 125% of Single Premium or
 (b) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be an amount equal to Sum Assured.
b) Maturity Benefit: 
No Maturity Benefit shall be payable on the Life Assured surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity.
c) Rider Benefits: 
There are no riders available under this product.
Payment of Premiums (Applicable in case of Limited and Regular Premium payment policies only):
a) The Policyholder has to pay the Premium on or before the Due Dates as specified in the Schedule of this 
Policy Document along with applicable taxes, if any.
b) In case of death of Life Assured under an inforce Policy wherein all the Premiums due till the date of 
death have been paid and where the mode of payment of premium is other than yearly, balance 
Premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next Policy Anniversary shall be 
deducted from the claim amount.
c) If Regular Premium or Limited premium payment variants are chosen under the said product, the 
premium payment modes allowed are Annual, Half-Yearly and Monthly. For administrative purposes, in 
case of monthly mode policies, the Company may accept/collect three months’ premiums in advance at 
Policy inception within the same financial year for the Premium due in that financial year. However, where 
the Premium due in one financial year is being collected in advance in earlier financial year, the Company 
may collect the same for a maximum period of three months in advance of the due date of the Premium. 
The Premium so collected in advance shall only be adjusted on the due date of the Premium.
The Company does not have any obligation to issue a notice that Premium is due or for the amount that is 
due.
1)
2)
PART C – BENEFITS:
Grace Period (Applicable in case of Limited and Regular Premium Payment policies only):
A Grace Period of 30 days where the mode of payment of Premium is yearly or half yearly and 15 days in 
case of monthly, is allowed for the payment of each renewal Premium. If the Premium is not paid before 
the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses.
If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the grace period but before the payment of the Premium 
then due, the Policy will still be valid and the benefits shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid 
Premium as also the balance Premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next 
Policy Anniversary.
3)
PART D: CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS 
Proof of Age:
The premiums under the Policy are calculated based on the age of the Life Assured as declared in the 
Proposal.
If the Age of the Life Assured has been misstated and if the correct Age of the Life Assured makes the Life 
Assured ineligible for this Policy, the Company may offer a suitable plan as per the then existing 
underwriting norms. If the Life Assured does not wish to opt for the alternative plan or if it is not possible 
for the Company to grant any other plan, then the Policy shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid shall be 
refunded without interest, subject to deduction of stamp duty paid and the cost of medicals, if any. The 
Policy will terminate on the said payment.
If the correct Age of the Life Assured makes the Life Assured eligible for this Policy, revised Premium 
depending upon the Correct Age will be payable. Difference of Premium from inception will be collected 
with interest, if age declared is higher and excess Premium collected will be refunded without interest, if 
age is found to be lower.
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time shall be applicable.
Free Look Period:
 a) This is an option to review the Policy following receipt of Policy Document. The Policyholder has a 
 Free Look Period of 15 days (30 days in case of electronic policies and policies obtained through 
 distance mode) from the date of receipt of the Policy Document, to review the terms and conditions of 
 the Policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and conditions, the Policyholder 
 has the option to return the Policy to the Company for cancellation, stating the reasons for his 
 objection, then the policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of the Premium paid subject only to the 
 deduction of a proportionate risk Premium for the period of cover and expenses incurred by the 
 Company on medical examination of the proposer and stamp duty charges.
 b) A request received by the Company for free look cancellation of the Policy shall be processed and 
 Premium refunded within 15 days of receipt of the request, as stated vide (a) above.
 c) The Policy shall terminate on payment of this amount and all rights, benefits and interests under this 
 Policy will stand extinguished.
Forfeiture provisions: 
 a) In case of Regular Premium policies, if the Premium has not been paid in respect of this Policy and any 
subsequent Premium be not duly paid, all the benefits shall cease after the expiry of Grace Period from 
the date of first unpaid Premium and nothing shall be payable, and the Premiums paid till then are also 
not refundable.
 b) In case of Limited Premium policies, if the Premium has not been paid for at least two (2) consecutive 
policy years in full in respect of this Policy and any subsequent Premium be not duly paid, all the benefits 
shall cease after the expiry of Grace Period from the date of first unpaid Premium and nothing shall be 
payable, and the Premiums paid till then are also not refundable.
 c) Forfeiture in Certain Other Events: In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be 
 contravened or in case it is found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal, 
 personal statement, declaration and connected documents or any material information is withheld, 
 then and in every such case this Policy shall be void and all claims to any benefit by virtue hereof shall 
 be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time.
Revival of lapsed Policies (Applicable for Regular and Limited Premium policies): 
 a) If the Policy has lapsed due to non-payment of due Premium within the days of grace, it may be 
revived during the life time of the Life Assured, but within the Revival Period and before the Date of 
Maturity, as the case may be, on payment of all the arrears of Premium(s) together with interest at a rate 
which shall be determined as the average of the daily rates of 10-Year G-Sec rate over the last five
1)
2)
3)
4)
 b) In addition to the arrears of Premium with interest, proof of continued insurability may be required 
 for revival of the discontinued Policy. The Company, however, reserves the right to accept at original 
 terms, accept with modified terms or decline the revival of a discontinued Policy. The revival of the 
 discontinued Policy shall take effect only after the same is approved by the Company and is specifically 
 communicated to the Policyholder.
 c) If a lapsed Policy is not revived within the Revival Period but before the Date of Maturity, the Policy 
 will automatically terminate. In case of Regular Premium policies, nothing shall be payable. However, in 
 case of Limited Premium Payment policies, the amount as payable in case of Policy Cancellation shall 
 be refunded and the Policy will terminate.
Surrender: Surrender value is not applicable under this Policy.
Policy Cancellation Value: 
Policy Cancellation Value shall be payable:
 a) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before the stipulated date of maturity in case of Single 
 Premium Policy; or
 b) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before the stipulated date of maturity or at the end of / 
 during the Revival Period if the Policy is not revived, in case of Limited Premium Payment Policies.
 c) The amount payable shall be as follows:
 i) Single Premium Policies:
 The Policy Cancellation Value acquires immediately after receipt of Single Premium and is 
 calculated as follows:
 ii) Limited Premium Payment Term: 5 years or 10 years:
 The Policy Cancellation Value acquires if at least two (2) consecutive full years’ Premiums are paid 
 and is calculated as follows:
 d) No Policy Cancellation Value shall be payable in respect of Regular Premium Policies.
Policy Loan: No loan will be available under this Policy.
Termination of Policy:
The Policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following 
events:
 a) The date on which Death Benefit becomes payable; or
 b) The date on which refund, if applicable, is settled, in case of cancellation of Policy; or
 c) The Date of Maturity; or
 d) On expiry of Revival Period, if the Policy has not been revived; or
 e) On payment of free look cancellation amount.
5)
6)
7)
8)
Unexpired Policy Term
Original Policy Term =70% x Single Premium Paid
=70% x Total Premiums paid
Unexpired Policy Term
Original Policy Term
 calendar years ending 31st December every year rounded to the nearest 50 bps plus a margin of 200 bps. 
The applicable interest rate for the financial year 2020-21 is 8.50% (simple interest) per annum. The 
Company undertakes the review of the interest rates for revivals on 31st December every year. Any 
changes resulting from the review shall be effective from 1st of April of the following year. Any change 
in the basis of determination of interest rate shall be done only after prior approval of the Authority.
Single Premium shall be inclusive of underwriting extra premium, if any.
PART E:
Not applicable
PART F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Assignment: Assignmentis allowed underthis plan as per section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended 
from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-1 of this Policy 
Document. The notice of assignment should be submitted for registration to the office of the Company, 
where the policy is serviced.
Nomination: Nomination by the holder of a policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per 
Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 
are contained in Annexure-2 of this Policy Document. The notice of nomination or change of nomination 
should be submitted for registration to the office of the Company, where the policy is serviced. In 
registering nomination the Company does not accept any responsibility or express any opinion as to its 
validity or legal effect.
Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938:
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time,shall be applicable. 
The current provisions are contained in Annexure-3 of this policy document.
Suicide Exclusion:
 a) Under Regular/Limited Premium Policy:
 This Policy shall be void if the Life Assured commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the Date 
 of Commencement of Risk, provided the Policy is inforce or within 12 months from the date of Revival 
 and the Company will not entertain any claim except for 80% of the Total Premiums Paid till the date of 
 death.
 b) Under Single Premium Policy:
 This Policy shall be void if the Life Assured commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the Date 
 of Commencement of Risk and the Company will not entertain any claim except 90 % of the Single
 Premium paid (including underwriting extra premium, if any).
Tax:
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other 
constitutional tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time 
to time.
The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the Policyholder on 
Premiums including extra amount if charged under the Policy due to underwriting decisions, which shall be 
collected separately over and above in addition to the Premiums payable by the Policyholder.
The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan.
The tax benefits, if any, would be as per the prevailing provisions of the tax laws in India. The Policyholder 
or the Nominee shall be liable for compliance of applicable tax provisions.
Normal requirements for a claim:
 a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the claimant shall submit while lodging the claim in case 
 of death of the Life Assured shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the Company, accompanied with 
 original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the 
 bank account, proof of title/death certificate, proof of death, medical treatment prior to the death (if 
 any), school/ college/ employer's certificate, KYC of Claimant whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction 
 of the Company. If the age is not admitted under the Policy, the proof of age of the Life Assured 
 shall also be submitted.
 In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an Accident, the Company may call for 
 the copies of First Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post Mortem report. The Company may also 
 call for additional documents as may be required by them.
 Within 90 days from the date of death, intimation of death along with death certificate must be notified 
 in writing to the office of the Company where the Policy is serviced. However, delay in intimation of the 
 genuine claim by the claimant, may be condoned by the Company, on merit, and where delay is proved 
 to be for the reasons beyond his/her control.
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
 b) Policy Cancellation: In case of cancellation of the Policy, the Policyholder shall submit the discharge 
 form along with the original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the 
 claim amount to the bank account.
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be required as 
per law shall also be required to be submitted.
Issuance of duplicate Policy:
 a) The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy on payment of 0 upon loss of Policy 
 Document along with other requirements as may be prescribed by the Company. 
Jurisdiction: 
The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle any 
disputes arising under the Policy.
Legislative Changes:
The Terms and Conditions including the premiums and benefits payable under this Policy are subject to 
variation in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.
7)
8)
9)
 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism:
In case You wish to register a complaint with Us, You may visit our website, approach our resolution centre 
or Grievance Officers at Hub locations or may write to Us at the following address. We will respond to You 
within two weeks from the date of our receiving Your complaint. Kindly note that in case We do not receive 
a revert from You within eight weeks from the date of Your receipt of our response, We will treat Your 
complaint as closed. 
Complaint Redressal Unit: Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited; 2nd 
Floor, Orchid Business Park, Sector-48, Sohna Road, Gurugram 122018, Haryana, India Toll Free: 
1800-103-0003 / 1800-180-0003 (BSNL/MTNL) Email: cru@canarahsbclife.in
If You do not receive a satisfactory response from Us within the above timelines, You may write to our 
Grievance Redressal Officer at: Grievance Redressal Officer: Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life 
Insurance Company Limited; 2nd Floor, Orchid Business Park, Sector-48, Sohna Road, Gurugram 122018, 
Haryana, India Toll Free: 1800-103-0003 / 1800-180-0003 (BSNL/MTNL) Email: gro@canarahsbclife.in
Grievance Redressal Mechanism of IRDAI:
In case the policyholder is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from the Company 
within 15 days, then the customer may approach the Grievance Cell of the IRDAI through any of the 
following modes:
 • Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre)
 • Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in
 • Register the complaint online at http://www.igms.irda.gov.in
 • Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter:
Consumer Affairs Department, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Survey 
No.115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad – 500032, Telangana.
Ombudsman:
For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who 
provides for low cost, speedy arbitration to customers.
The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider complaints or 
disputes relating to the matters such as:
 (a) Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the 
 Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Act,1999;
 (b) Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health insurer;
 (c) Disputes over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy;
 (d) Misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the policy document or policy 
 contract;
 (e) Legal construction of insurance policies insofar as the dispute relates to claim;
 (f) Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries;
 (g) Issuance of life insurance policy, general insurance policy including health insurance policy which is 
 not in conformity with the proposal form submitted by the proposer;
 (h) Non-issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium in life insurance and general insurance 
 including health insurance; and
 (i) Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended 
 from time to time, or the regulations, circulars , guidelines or instructions issued by IRDAI from time to 
 time or the terms and conditions of the policy contract, in so far as they relate to issues mentioned at 
 clauses (a) to (f).
1)
PART G: Grievance Redressal Mechanism
 
LIST OF INSURANCE OMBUDSMAN*
Ahmedabad: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, Tilak Marg, Relief 
Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001. Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in 
Jurisdiction: Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu
Bengaluru: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Soudha Building, PID No. 57 – 27 – N – 19, Ground 
Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru - 560 078. Tel.: 080 - 26652049 / 26652048 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Karnataka.
Bhopal: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janak Vihar Complex,2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel 
Office, Near New Market, Bhopal (M.P.)-462 003. Tel.: 0755-2769201 / 2769202 Fax: 0755-2769203 Email: 
bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh.
Bhubaneshwar: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Forest Park, Bhubaneshwar-751 009. Tel.: 
0674-2596461/2596455 Fax: 0674- 2596429 Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: 
Odisha
Chandigarh: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No.101, 102,103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 
17-D, Chandigarh-160 017. Tel.: 0172- 2706196/2706468 Fax: 0172-2708274 Email: 
bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, 
Chandigarh.
Chennai: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fathima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, 
Teynampet, Chennai-600 018. Tel.: 044- 24333668/24335284 Fax : 044-24333664 Email: 
bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry Town and Karaikal (which are part of 
Pondicherry)
New Delhi: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New 
Delhi-110002. Tel.: 011-23232481 / 23213504 Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Delhi
Guwahati: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, “Jeevan Nivesh”, 5th Floor, Near Panbazar Overbridge, S.S. 
Road, Guwahati-781 001(Assam). Tel.: 0361-2632204/2602205 Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in 
Jurisdiction: Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura
Hyderabad: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", Lane Opp. Saleem 
Function Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi- Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004. Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122 Fax: 
040 - 23376599 Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Yanam 
and part of Territory of Pondicherry
Jaipur: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 
302 005. Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in . Jurisdiction: Rajasthan
Ernakulam: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M.G. Road, 
Ernakulam-682 015. Tel: 0484- 2358759/2359338 Fax: 0484-2359336 Email: 
bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe – a part of Pondicherry
Kolkata: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 4th Floor, Hindusthan Bldg. Annexe, 4, C.R. Avenue, Kolkata 
– 700 072. Tel: 033 22124339/22124340 Fax: 033 22124341 Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in 
Jurisdiction: West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands
Lucknow: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 6th Floor, Nawal Kishore Road, 
Hazaratganj, Lucknow-226 001. Tel: 0522 -2231330/2231331 Fax: 0522-2231310 Email: 
bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, 
Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Varanasi, Gazipur, 
Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda,
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
9)
10)
11)
12)
13)
 
Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
Mumbai: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S.V. Road, Santacruz(W), 
Mumbai-400 054. Tel: 022- 26106552/26106960 Fax: 022-26106052 Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in 
Jurisdiction: Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane
Pune: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. 
Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune 411 030. Tel.:020 – 41312555; Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in 
Jurisdiction: Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
Noida: Insurance Ombudsman, Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: 
G.B. Nagar, UP - 201 301 Tel.: 0120- 2514250/52/53 Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: State 
of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, 
Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, 
Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur
Patna: Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612- 2680952 Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in Jurisdiction: Bihar, 
Jharkhand
*For updated list of Ombudsman please refer to the GBIC website at http://www.ecoi.co.in/ombudsman.html
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions and special 
provisions/conditions the English version shall stand valid.
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY DOCUMENT, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND THEREIN, 
RETURN IT IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION.
14)
15)
16)
17)
 
Section 38 “Assignment and Transfer of Insurance Policies” is reproduced below
38. 1. A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part, whether with or without 
consideration, may be made only by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument, 
signed in either case by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly authorised agent and attested by at 
least one witness, specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons thereof, the 
antecedents of the assignee and the terms on which the assignment is made. 2. An insurer may, accept the 
transfer or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement made under sub-section (1), where it has 
sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or assignment is not bona fide or is not in the interest of the 
policy-holder or in public interest or is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy. 3. The insurer shall, 
before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing the reasons for such refusal and 
communicate the same to the policy-holder not later than thirty days from the date of the policy-holder 
giving notice of such transfer or assignment. 4. Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to 
decline to act upon such transfer or assignment may within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt 
of the communication from the insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Authority. 
5. Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or assignment shall be complete and effectual 
upon the execution of such endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where the transfer or 
assignment is in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as against an insurer, and shall not confer upon 
the transferee or assignee, or his legal representative, any right to sue for the amount of such policy or the 
moneys secured thereby until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said 
endorsement or instrument itself or a copy thereof certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee 
or their duly authorised agents have been delivered to the insurer: Provided that where the insurer 
maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice shall be delivered only at the place where 
the policy is being serviced. 6. The date on which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the 
insurer shall regulate the priority of all claims under a transfer or assignment as between persons 
interested in the policy; and where there is more than one instrument of transfer or assignment the priority 
of the claims under such instruments shall be governed by the order in which the notices referred to in 
sub-section (5) are delivered: Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between 
assignees, the dispute shall be referred to the Authority. 7. Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in 
sub-section (5), the insurer shall record the fact of such transfer or assignment together with the date 
thereof and the name of the transferee or the assignee and shall, on the request of the person by whom 
the notice was given, or of the transferee or assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by 
regulations, grant a written acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice; and any such 
acknowledgement shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer that he has duly received the notice to 
which such acknowledgment relates. 8. Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, 
the insurer shall, from the date of the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), recognize the 
transferee or assignee named in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under 
the policy, and such person shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor 
was subject at the date of the transfer or assignment and may institute any proceedings in relation to the 
policy, obtain a loan under the policy or surrender the policy without obtaining the consent of the 
transferor or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings. Explanation.— Except where the 
endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates that the assignment or transfer is conditional 
in terms of sub- section (10) hereunder, every assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be an absolute 
assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the 
absolute assignee or transferee respectively. 9. Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a 
policy of life insurance under an assignment or transfer effected prior to the commencement of the 
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be affected by the provisions of this section. 10. 
Notwithstanding any law or custom having the force of law to the contrary, an assignment in favour of a 
person made upon the condition that — (a) the proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the 
policy-holder or the nominee or nominees in the event of either the assignee/or transferee predeceasing 
the insured; or (b) the insured surviving the term of the policy, shall be valid: Provided that a conditional 
assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or surrender a policy. 11. In the case of the 
partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-section (1), the liability of the insurer shall 
be limited to the amount secured by partial assignment or transfer and such policy-holder shall not be 
entitled to further assign or transfer the residual amount payable under the same policy.
Annexure 1 to Policy Bond
 
Section 39 “Nomination by Policyholder” is reproduced below
39. 1. The holder of a policy of life insurance on his own life may, when effecting the policy or at any time 
before the policy matures for payment, nominate the person or persons to whom the money secured by 
the policy shall be paid in the event of his death: Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall be 
lawful for the policy-holder to appoint any person in the manner laid down by the insurer, to receive the 
money secured by the policy in the event of his death during the minority of the nominee. 2. Any such 
nomination in order to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the policy itself, be made by 
an endorsement on the policy communicated to the insurer and registered by him in the records relating to 
the policy and any such nomination may at any time before the policy matures for payment be cancelled or 
changed by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will, as the case may be, but unless notice in 
writing of any such cancellation or change has been delivered to the insurer, the insurer shall not be liable 
for any payment under the policy made bona fide by him to a nominee mentioned in the text of the policy 
or registered in records of the insurer. 3. The insurer shall furnish to the policyholder a written 
acknowledgment of having registered a nomination or a cancellation or change thereof, and may charge 
such fee as may be specified by regulations for registering such cancellation or change. 4. A transfer or 
assignment of a policy made in accordance with section 38 shall automatically cancel a nomination: 
Provided that the assignment of a policy to the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the time of the 
assignment, in consideration of a loan granted by that insurer on the security of the policy within its 
surrender value, or its re-assignment on repayment of the loan shall not cancel a nomination, but shall 
affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the insurer’s interest in the policy: Provided further 
that the transfer or assignment of a policy, whether wholly or in part, in consideration of a loan advanced 
by the transferee or assignee to the policy-holder, shall not cancel the nomination but shall affect the rights 
of the nominee only to the extent of the interest of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be, in the 
policy: Provided also that the nomination, which has been automatically cancelled consequent upon the 
transfer or assignment, the same nomination shall stand automatically revived when the policy is 
reassigned by the assignee or retransferred by the transferee in favour of the policy-holder on repayment 
of loan other than on a security of policy to the insurer. 5. Where the policy matures for payment during the 
lifetime of the person whose life is insured or where the nominee or, if there are more nominees than one, 
all the nominees die before the policy matures for payment, the amount secured by the policy shall be 
payable to the policy-holder or his heirs or legal representatives or the holder of a succession certificate, as 
the case may be. 6. Where the nominee or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees 
survive the person whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to such survivor 
or survivors. 7. Subject to the other provisions of this section, where the holder of a policy of insurance on 
his own life nominates his parents, or his spouse, or his children, or his spouse and children, or any of them, 
the nominee or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to the amount payable by the insurer to him or them 
under sub-section (6) unless it is proved that the holder of the policy, having regard to the nature of his title 
to the policy, could not have conferred any such beneficial title on the nominee. 8. Subject as aforesaid, 
where the nominee, or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees, to whom sub-section 
(7) applies, die after the person whose life is insured but before the amount secured by the policy is paid, 
the amount secured by the policy, or so much of the amount secured by the policy as represents the share 
of the nominee or nominees so dying (as the case may be), shall be payable to the heirs or legal 
representatives of the nominee or nominees or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be, 
and they shall be beneficially entitled to such amount. 9. Nothing in sub-sections (7) and (8) shall operate 
to destroy or impede the right of any creditor to be paid out of the proceeds of any policy of life insurance. 
10. The provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8) shall apply to all policies of life insurance maturing for 
payment after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015. 11. Where a 
policy-holder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds and benefit of his policy has not been 
made to him because of his death, in such a case, his nominee shall be entitled to the proceeds and benefit 
of his policy. 12. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any policy of life insurance to which section 
6 of the Married Women’s Property Act, 1874, applies or has at any time applied: Provided that where a 
nomination made whether before or after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 
2015, in favour of the wife of the person who has insured his life or of his wife and children or any of them 
is expressed, whether or not on the face of the policy, as being made under this section, the said section 6 
shall be deemed not to apply or not to have applied to the policy.
Annexure 2 to the Policy Bond
 
Section 45 “Policy not to be called in question on ground of misstatement after three years” is 
reproduced below1. No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three 
years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement 
of risk or the date of Revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later. 2. A policy 
of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the 
policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of Revival of the policy or the date of the rider to 
the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate 
in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds 
and materials on which such decision is based. Explanation I- For the purposes of this sub-section, the 
expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the insured or by his agent, with the 
intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy: a. the suggestion, as a 
fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true; b. the active concealment 
of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact; c. any other act fitted to deceive; and d. any 
such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be fraudulent. Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts 
likely to affect the assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud, unless the circumstances of the case 
are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the insured or his agent, keeping silence to speak, 
or unless his silence is , in itself, equivalent to speak. 3. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section 
(2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the 
mis-statement of a or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that 
there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of a 
material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving 
lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. Explanation –A person who solicits and 
negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for the purpose of the formation of the contract, to be 
the agent of the insurer. 4. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years 
from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of Revival of the 
policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or 
suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the 
proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued: Provided 
that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or 
nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the 
policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of 
misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the 
policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or 
assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation. Explanation- For 
the purposes of this sub-section, the mis-statement of or suppression of fact shall not be considered 
material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer, the onus is on the insurer to 
show that had the insurer been aware of the said fact no life insurance policy would have been issued to 
the insured. 5. Nothing in this sections shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if 
he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of 
the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life assured was incorrectly stated in the 
proposal.
Endorsement(s)
No riders are available under this policy.
Annexure 3 to Policy Bond